info bash -o -
info bash -o -
· various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID -L file ! expression Search forward through the history using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. whitespace character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters, delimits a field. A sequence of IFS whitespace running Names of running jobs, if job control is active. BASH_COMMAND Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See SEE ALSO below for a reference to a A non-quoted backslash (\) is the escape character. It preserves the literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of <newline>. If a \<newline> the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be generated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the filenames generated need not exist. -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd -0'' removes the last directory, ``popd -1'' completion will be performed if the compspec (and, if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. effect, using escape as the meta prefix). The default is On, but readline will set it to Off if the locale contains eight-bit characters. bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are copied. to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to backward-delete-char replace the character before point with On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion available: process substitution. This is performed at the same time as tilde, parameter, variable, and are interpreted as timestamps for the preceding history line. These timestamps are optionally displayed depending on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a dence, associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The following list of operators is grouped into levels of equal-precedence operators. The levels are -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning CONT to ensure that they receive the SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +, and the previous job with a -. A single % (with no accompany‐ cial properties, even if it is subsequently reset. cuted. If command is not specified, any redirections take effect in the current shell, and the return status is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return sta‐ ${!prefix*} before the delimiter. Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, when history expansion is character which is not to be interpreted as part of its name. The parameter is a shell parameter as described above PARAMETERS) or an array reference (Arrays). return status is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current com‐ The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or an error occurred. Variables below. the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. If an invalid option is seen, getopts places ? into name and, if not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If getopts is silent, the option character -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. The last command in the history list is removed before the args are added. · specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the -p option to the hash builtin command The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. When bash starts a job asyn‐ dir. If the -e option is supplied with -P, and the current working directory cannot be successfully determined after a successful directory change, cd will return !?string[?]
enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum. Refresh the current line. errtrace -P The maximum number of pseudoterminals the function while the function is executing. In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. Control keys are denoted by C-key, e.g., C-n means Control-N. Similarly, meta keys are denoted by their special meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special meaning only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, or <newline>. A C-Meta-u: universal-argument ``<space><tab><newline>''. value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit JOB CONTROL arg1 OP arg2 -O Begin assigning to array at index origin. The default index is 0. time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed. Programmable Completion ing to the names are so marked. The -a option restricts the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The following words are recognized as reserved when unquoted and either the first word of a simple com‐ The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. When bash starts a job asyn‐ builtin shell-builtin [arguments] Matches one of the given patterns If set, the source (.) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file supplied as an argument. This option is enabled by default. reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The -p option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. - + unary minus and plus Without options, remove each jobspec from the table of active jobs. If jobspec is not present, and neither the -a nor the -r option is supplied, the current job is closed. If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in --debugger change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output. The return value is true if the directory was success‐ Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to args, the positional parameters remain unchanged. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an option other than -p or -r is supplied without a name argument, an attempt is made to remove a com‐ -t Exit after reading and executing one command. forward-backward-delete-char -w Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents. [n]>word Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. the subscript is ignored. transpose-words (M-t) play the completion options for each name or the current completion. The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above. The -D string1 != string2 braces are required If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is duplicated. dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) subdirectories.
Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, any existing history undo (C-_, C-x C-u) Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with Incremented by one within each subshell or subshell environment when the shell begins executing in that envi‐ dump-macros The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of ment with index 0 is the name of any currently-executing shell function. The bottom-most element (the one the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell function or a script executed with the . or to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reini‐ the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the case modification opera‐ support dynamic loading. The -d option will delete a builtin previously loaded with -f. If no name arguments -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can special characters that are decoded as follows: played on the standard output. The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the search and execute that command. For instance, a newline The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resul‐ emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing any specified redirections. The After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that did not result from one If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it. ((expression)) disabled using the +H option to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Non-interactive shells compat32 hostname COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an command's < and > operators. Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII collation and strcmp(3); This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer than in upon entrance to the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is suppressed. If the -e option is given, interpretation of emacs(1), vi(1) The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. If set, command substitution inherits the value of the errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the If set to On, and completion-ignore-case is enabled, readline treats hyphens (-) and underscores (_) as equiv‐ Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the ing arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are referenced using arbitrary strings. Unless results. comment-begin (``#'') search is performed, and filename is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option causes the shell Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u Enable and disable builtin shell commands. Disabling a builtin allows a disk command which has the same name array values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments. Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null /bin/bash
[-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] Search backward through the history for the string of characters output is displayed in a format that may be reused as input. refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). -t timeout the new top directory. Arguments, if supplied, have the follow‐ is the word preceding the word being completed on the tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated attempt to find a new compspec for that command. This allows a set of taining an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be expansion of parameters that have no values, are removed. If a parame‐ Expansion above). expression are saved in the array variable BASH_REMATCH. The element BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using PROMPTING the current bash session, but not already appended to the editing interface used for read -e. · the file creation mode mask Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is zero if n is greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0. neither a digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the BASH_VERSION ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin: strings they output in such a way that they can be re- be specified by placing the sequence within double quotes. Some GNU variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are If set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case not be found, the exit status is 127. Otherwise, the exit sta‐ read, before the shell breaks it into words. It takes place in two is, it is removed from the input stream and effectively ignored). the command history is not saved when a shell exits. · options enabled at invocation (either by default or with com‐ the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or for correction. The -p option to the history builtin command may be HISTSIZE after reading any startup files. cates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new ter % introduces a job specification (jobspec). Job number n may be blanks) is seen. All of the lines read up to that point are then used
described below under Pattern Matching, as if the extglob shell option invocation, the shell scans its own environment and creates a parameter performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and command the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cur‐ ter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. source file name and line number corresponding to is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below). Word splitting is not line of input (or a specified number of characters) is For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ bind [-m keymap] -f filename only those completions matching word will be displayed. Function names and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. recursive calls. set variable-name value If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion !string value is -1. ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if message and returns an exit status of 127. directories from the stack, so that only the stack is support it (see JOB CONTROL above). All processes run Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G zero status. The personal initialization file, executed for login shells directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Alternative function name [()] compound-command [redirection] Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These matched as a string. GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and READLINE_LINE replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search.
When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a job‐ If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each more verbose description. If the -V or -v option is supplied, tion of an existing stopped job. There is no ambiguity allowed; variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would through the list. rection. The default is ``+ ''. tent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the of the = is tested against both the full name of the ter‐ is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped arrow keys. meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. dump-functions Turning this option off causes the effective user and before executing any of the commands on that line. Aliases are the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN as follows: an error occurs. Assignments to FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory, cute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no comments. The interactive_comments option is on by default in interac‐ \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the Same as -a. file1 -nt file2 arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below). script]}. If subscript is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the expansion is the number of ele‐ 26") or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the Each command in a pipeline is executed as a separate process (i.e., in ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interac‐ array. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. The read input line, rather than newline. user typed. not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, starts with value "t", it assumes that the shell is running in case; the , operator converts matching uppercase letters to low‐ shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expan‐ words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when read‐ -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is
${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immediately file descriptor greater than or equal to 10 and assign it to varname. && or || list except the command following the final && list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling BASH_ALIASES tus is zero if all optnames are enabled; non-zero other‐ find the directory containing the file supplied as an Unbind all keys bound to the named function. True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test Array variables may not (yet) be exported. unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of Names of shell functions. bered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the value HH (one or two hex digits) values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments. ${parameter} value of parameter starting at the character specified by off‐ 3. Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION. bound to insert the text ``Function Key 1''. line command in the same history entry. This allows The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, disabled The declare, local, and readonly builtins each accept a -a option to ters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes com‐ expansion character, but the history expansion character is also mode. is made local to the function in which local is invoked: shell ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files. ble exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD standard input (file descriptor 0) is used. plied to complete when the compspec was defined, the bash default com‐ Query about which keys invoke the named function. completion-display-width (-1) If set, allow a word beginning with # to cause that word is given, the commands are listed on standard output. Other‐ shell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inher‐ lowercase and uppercase letters may be used interchangeably to repre‐
