info bash -o -
info bash -o -
In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the interactive_comments option to the shopt builtin is enabled (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word ${parameter:=word} An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of FUNCNAME was invoked. ${BASH_LINENO[$i]} is the line number default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches. bash reads these files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. command, plus any additions via the export and declare -x commands. The if list is executed. If its exit status is zero, the then list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in turn, and if its exit status is zero, the beginning-of-line (C-a) comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. show-mode-in-prompt (Off) \E an escape character \t horizontal tab jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ] -c If the -c option is present, then commands are read from the first non-option argument command_string. If there are arguments after the command_string, the first IGNOREEOF Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the standard personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum. -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on to be used in an expression. \v vertical tab Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows commands' file handles to be set to the name given, and the remaining arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any. Unbind all keys bound to the named function. Coprocesses ${parameter:offset} plied, have the following meanings: to an invocation of the shell. The current set of options may be found in $-. The return status is always true unless an invalid option is encountered. \# the command number of this command the resultant list. only a single command). members of the resultant list which match the word being completed. options. if n is not specified. -f Disable pathname expansion. with the same name may result in multiple identically-named entries in the environment passed to the shell's children. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters appears, then the word is regarded \0nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits) displayed. Toggle overwrite mode. With an explicit positive numeric argument, switches to overwrite mode. With an explicit non-positive numeric argument, switches to insert First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches which are prefixed by the word being completed are returned. When the -f or -d option is used for directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard output was redirected to dirlist. as if a zero value or null string, as appropriate, had been supplied. The return value is zero on success, non-zero on failure.
interactive_comments Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of bash. until keyword, part of the test in an if statement, part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a @(pattern-list) -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top. BASH_LOADABLES_PATH hostcomplete True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. -C If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with the >, >&, and <> redirection operators. This may be overridden when creating output files by using interrupt any other output. If the -b option to the set builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e. -i text shift_verbose logout Exit a login shell. --restricted \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format If set to On, readline uses an internal more-like pager to display a screenful of possible completions at a time. This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the file whose name is the expan‐ the function is the compound command compound-command (see Compound Commands above). That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but may be any com‐ removed from the environment passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RANDOM, SECONDS, LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or DIRSTACK are unset, The value of BASH_ENV is subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a filename. PATH is not used -b file If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the results. /dev/stderr is followed by =value, the value of the variable is set to value. When using -a or -A and the compound assignment syntax to create array variables, additional tion operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. vious value. This includes arguments to builtin commands such as declare that accept assignment statements (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL contents of the current line. filenames wise, the expression is false. below, the shell may use values above 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's use. The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names may not be changed by subsequent assignment. If the -f option is supplied, the functions correspond‐ Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and the longest match of pattern against True if file exists and is readable. 2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are expanded. If any words remain after expansion, the first word is taken to be the name of the command \V the release of bash, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0) If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the specified interpreter on oper‐
operator and operand must be a separate argument. Expressions are composed of the primaries described above Duplicating File Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. logout Exit a login shell. expr1 , expr2 string with a statement of the form substring, the string supplied needs to match a substring of the name of a stopped job. The substring value patterns in GLOBIGNORE. The dotglob option is disabled when GLOBIGNORE is unset. The pattern matching honors the index of the next array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that element as additional argu‐ -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file the value of 128+N as the exit status. beginning-of-history (M-<) mark-directories (On) Equivalent to -D. the directory containing dir: each directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Alternative directory names INVOCATION Special Parameters When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interac‐ environment PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and used as the primary prompt string. The The matches will be generated in the same way as if the programmable completion code had generated them aries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word. The shell executes the specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this executable format them‐ execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage, generally invalid options or missing BASH_VERSINFO implies -f. The -g option forces variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a OPTERR If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit charac‐ extdebug BASH_LINENO · setting or unsetting the values of SHELL, PATH, ENV, or BASH_ENV On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion available: process substitution. This is performed attempted and any matches are added to the results of the other actions. expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the beginning or end serves to delimit words. If -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. onto BASH_ARGC. The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the noexec Same as -n. there are arguments after the command_string, the first argument is assigned to $0 and any remaining argu‐ directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command limit is omitted, the current value of the soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is The personal initialization file, executed for login shells -C command count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element.
is supplied, only disabled builtins are printed. If -a is sup‐ for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child pro‐ operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to upper‐ from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. -o comp-option nosort Tell readline not to sort the list of possible pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, sion before the complete builtin is invoked. same as those used by shell-forward-word. default. A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the com‐ commands and bindings from that file. For example, the follow‐ performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to each function name supplied as an argument. the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array turn, and list is executed each time. If the in word is omit‐ When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved [n]<&word --posix i.e., ``.''. If dir begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not coproc [NAME] command [redirections] `^'. The optional third character is the character which indi‐ The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the expanded. If any words remain after expansion, the first word is, it is removed from the input stream and effectively ignored). escape characters by default. echo does not interpret -- to will display the attributes and values of all variables having Specify how arguments to each name should be completed. If the connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and caller [expr] that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, -s If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after PLY array variable. commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if Insert the character typed. complete-into-braces (M-{) one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in the after expansion and to split lines into words with the read
value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home direc‐ gnu_errfmt \n new line compat43 performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to -s Discard the first count lines read. MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt are dis‐ used as a command name. If the -t option is used, type prints a -e The maximum scheduling priority ("nice") of the shell variables HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL. mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option BASH_VERSINFO[2] The patch level. into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modi‐ -f Use function names only. HOSTFILE Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings: A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command · specifying command names containing / copied. Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the local [option] [name[=value] ... | - ] An associative array variable whose members correspond to the This means that dollar signs in variable names that when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref placed in the environment exported to that command. When check‐ An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source specific settings. Each program using the readline INVOCATION file1 -ef file2 new value is retained when source completes. The return status The default key-bindings may be changed with an inputrc file. Other [n]<word list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are If set at shell invocation, arrange to execute the description, a pattern-list is a list of one or more patterns separated shell-kill-word -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the cuted. BASHOPTS dirspell successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). is the one-argument test of the second argument. Other‐
The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + clears the -e option in such subshells. tive login shell, or a non-interactive shell with the --login option, invocation, the shell becomes restricted. A restricted shell is used · specifying command names containing / inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function tent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change Run command with args suppressing the normal shell function -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line below. tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted current source until a line containing only delimiter (with no trailing Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is cial variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is builtin command ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if also performed. Consequently, one may use filenames with tildes in The following variables are set by the shell: to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are bered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the Attempt filename completion on the text before point. The positional parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 .... If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. metacharacter. Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The ters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if option processing, then commands are read from the standard exactly like yank-nth-arg. Successive calls to yank-last-arg value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job. bers. Lines listed with a 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh have been modified. An argument of formed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline tilde-expand (M-&) addition to the standard printf(1) format specifications, printf declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] history-expand-line (M-^) allexport blanks and newlines. the -f option to the export builtin. A function definition may be \e recursive calls. when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref ing options can be used to restrict output to variables with the is supplied, the functions corresponding to the names are so ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the
in the history list starting with string. the noclobber option to the set builtin command is not enabled, the re‐ The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the cur‐ may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined suffix is appended to each possible completion after all typed. The value of the HISTSIZE variable is used as the number of COMP_KEY PARAMETERS arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below). fixing each entry with its index in the stack. lowing meanings: -S suffix user and system time consumed by its execution are reported when the formed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell ls > dirlist 2>&1 shell with those options or allow them to be specified. After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command significant 8 bits. The return status is non-zero if return is Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup function and its caller. empty string (completion attempted at the beginning of an empty line), ization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive (see INVOCA‐ above). ${#name[subscript]} expands to the length of ${name[sub‐ Lowercase the current (or following) word. With a negative On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the vari‐ If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec bindings or variable assignments found there. inputrc file. E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter A synonym for yank-last-arg. and not null. However, setting GLOBIGNORE to a non-null value has the command [-pVv] command [arg ...] removal operation is applied to each member of the array in been generated by possible-completions. Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to contains eight-bit characters. Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell valid values). The current version is also a valid value. If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The fol‐ HISTCMD CHILD_MAX builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options
