info bash -o -
info bash -o -
able, will not have useful values. Modify completion options for each name according to the options, or for the currently-executing completion if no names are supplied. If no options are given, dis‐ are disabled (unset) by default. -p prompt A ] may be matched by including it as the first character in the set. &>>word If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the directory name initially supplied does not exist. If set, and readline is being used, the results of history substitution are not immediately passed to the shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is command and its expanded arguments or associated word list. xtrace Same as -x. keymap (emacs) COMMAND EXECUTION g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is used in conjunction with `:s' (e.g., `:gs/old/new/') or `:&'. If used with `:s', any delimiter can BASH_ARGC Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns in the hash table; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause command names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is unset, it loses its In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a macro). alias-expand-line interactive (see INVOCATION below). pleting is performed. nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has -i text Here Strings by a /, only directories and subdirectories match. The shell sets this option if it is started as a login shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be changed. load completions dynamically: @(pattern-list) UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. start-kbd-macro (C-x () mark-symlinked-directories (Off) If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default. Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed-width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their prece‐ · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup function ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the name sh, bash looks for the variable unix-filename-rubout e Remove all but the trailing suffix. unset using the -n option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the name of a nameref variable as an argument, the variable referenced by the nameref Commands for Manipulating the History An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit status values from the processes in the most-recently-executed foreground pipeline (which may contain enable-bracketed-paste (Off) character are not saved in the history list. A value of ignoredups causes lines matching the previous history entry to not be saved. A value of ignoreboth is
accept-line (Newline, Return) closed. \t horizontal tab histappend A The expansion is a string in the form of an assignment statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will recreate parameter with its attributes and value. expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the characters \, $, and `. One line is read from the standard input, or from the file descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split into words as described above under Word login_shell -S file enable-bracketed-paste (Off) LS_COLORS environment variable. that job's pipeline are waited for. If n is not given, all currently active child processes are waited for, and the return status is zero. If the -n option is sup‐ histchars A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form diately executes the next command in the sequence. It suffices to place the sequence of commands between parentheses to force it into a subshell, which may be stopped as a Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without expansion is the resultant list. The following is a list of the names of the commands and the default key sequences to which they are bound. Command names without an accompanying key sequence are unbound completion-display-width (-1) leading `.' must be supplied by the user in the filename to be completed. nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has must evaluate to a number. To explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the function while the function is executing. COLUMNS entry. No intervening blank is printed between the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The history builtin may be used to dis‐ hostname is the first character of the value of the IFS variable. If IFS is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is null, the parameters are joined without found is placed in OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. Arithmetic expansion allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression and the substitution of the result. The format for arithmetic expansion is: re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) stitution occurs. MANDS below). rent input line, or fix errors in previous commands quickly. [n]>word is the exit status of list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are reserved words and must occur where a reserved word is permitted to be recog‐ the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function. Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how to insert characters like C-q, for example. -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are copied.
source filename [arguments] process group ID, and executes command passing it args, returning its exit status. LINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes True if file1 and file2 refer to the same device and inode numbers. under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the various compatibility levels and their effects. The execute. Bash behaves as if the following command were executed: Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null word being completed. -z string If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all parameter assignments are placed in the envi‐ Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: directories and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a /, only directories and subdirecto‐ of the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined with the last part of the original word. the complete builtin with the exception of -p and -r, and write the matches to the standard output. When startup files, as if the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set while the shell is run‐ \a alert (bell) always put alias definitions on a separate line, and do not use alias in compound commands. upcase-word (M-u) The redirection operator -t Exit after reading and executing one command. Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u name, that function is invoked as described above in FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell ment of this list in turn, and list is executed each time. If the in word is omitted, the for command exe‐ assigned to the array members are as follows: case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key then the x key. This makes ESC the meta prefix. The combination M-C-x Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed within braces so the list is TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's stack. The number of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or script executed with . or value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first characters on an input line can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. pipeline is: fied. An argument of n lists only the last n lines. If the shell variable HISTTIMEFORMAT is set and not 1. The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source file name and line number correspond‐ ters, digits, and the character _. ters) is not read within timeout seconds. timeout may be a decimal number with a fractional portion before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION below). The file descriptors can be utilized as non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) ( expression ) An OR list has the form -l List process IDs in addition to the normal information. Process Substitution
and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. argument is ignored. Pathname Expansion True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name refer‐ first character of the redirection operator is >, the redirection 0 Expands to the name of the shell or shell script. This is set is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of its value is interpreted as a filename containing commands to expand-tilde (Off) CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS variable are defined. The shell function ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical the name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory com‐ A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell vi-cmd-mode-string ((cmd)) more digits, the file descriptor denoted by n is made to be a copy of line output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the out‐ second name, and so on. If there are more words than names, the the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to the variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is to using the syntax name[subscript]=value. The subscript is treated as -k. ing mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file cur‐ plied. The variable MAPFILE is the default array. Options, if enable-meta-key (On) unix-filename-rubout COMP_KEY the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an positional parameters during its execution. The special parameter # is [[ expression ]] option is encountered, the directory stack is empty, a non-exis‐ the shell's parent, and traps ignored by the shell are ignored entries from the list. The current directory is always the -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern ment. Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to the input. below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell end of input to the shell. time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and the list of array indices (keys) assigned in name. If name is
spec's behavior beyond the simple generation of comple‐ When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or $ Expands to the process ID of the shell. In a () subshell, it syntactically incorrect, the conditional expression's return value is Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to quote removal. Pathname expansion and word splitting are not per‐ expand to directories will not be quoted; however, any error, each preceded by a number. If the in word is omitted, direxpand sion before the complete builtin is invoked. Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in option is supplied, wait waits for any job to terminate and causes this command to make the current line a shell comment. character is the quick substitution character, which is used as ment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of the current shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the the args are added. or zero if no commands were executed. trol sequence into the mode string. described above. The -D option indicates that the remaining allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural The if list is executed. If its exit status is zero, the then Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables. above under Pathname Expansion are enabled. ified as -v. line command in the same history entry. This allows test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules pany-system format. The default is system-dependent. Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this docu‐ completion even if the ignored words are the only possi‐ cmdhist If set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple- insert-comment (M-#) executed in a subshell environment. Changes made to the subshell envi‐ dard output and exit successfully. expr1 , expr2 After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans M-Control-u: universal-argument time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the
exit if exec fails. emacs(1), vi(1) A shell function is an object that is called like a simple command and specific settings. Each program using the readline common prefix) cause the matches to be listed immediately arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a filename. through the history as necessary. This is an incremental M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands history-search-backward Arithmetic Expansion Line editing is also used when using the -e option to the read builtin. Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example, redirected as described previously. binary operators return true if arg1 is equal to, not equal to, -d offset consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be modi‐ The action may be one of the following to generate a cover whether or not a shell is restricted. ENVIRONMENT word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched fication. preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. pleted on the current command line. No filtering of the generated com‐ running Names of running jobs, if job control is active. tus of the last command executed in the script. If no commands are NAME waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. command changes the value of READLINE_LINE or READ‐ a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches each name. If the -t option is supplied, the full pathname to BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed. Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the globstar Compound commands and command sequences of the form `a ; b ; c' are not g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is no arguments are supplied. tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and command sub‐
additional input. If this variable is set to a value less than · changing directories with cd process is stopped, the shell immediately executes the next command in consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be modi‐ [n]<&digit- the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automati‐ globstar True if the length of string is zero. If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a ward-delete-char replace the character before point with a use during substitution. The second is to select portions of that line parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirec‐ the -l option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the begin‐ No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments may not be changed by subsequent assignment. If the -f option following the final slash) EUID Expands to the effective user ID of the current user, initial‐ If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as the dol‐ positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to the -o comp-option attempt is made to use a quoted compound array assign‐ For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and option is encountered. entries. Readline Conditional Constructs ceding history line. These timestamps are optionally displayed depend‐ by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a character in the set. unset. n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP expanded, it must be enclosed in braces (see EXPANSION below). When set to On, readline will try to enable the application key‐ selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at word. no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a LC_MESSAGES stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active. ments, the list consists of all enabled shell builtins. If -n for word splitting. acters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is plusdirs it as a filename. shell-kill-word disallowed or not performed: Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred
