info bash -o -
info bash -o -
characters encountered in the input are not treated specially and do not cause read to return until nchars characters are read. The result is not split on A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -s option to the shopt builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ ${parameter:-word} dence, associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The following list of operators is grouped into levels of equal-precedence operators. The levels are BASH_ENV If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not supplied, no startup files are read, shell func‐ -c The maximum size of core files created If set at shell invocation, arrange to execute the debugger profile before the shell starts, identical to the --debugger option. If set after invocation, vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or an error occurs. The pathname expansion pattern globpat is expanded to generate the possible completions. BASH_LINENO Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is. If this line is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state of the HISTCONTROL variable. If the parameter. If string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / following pattern may be omitted. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is bashdefault using standard word expansions. The file descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Bash behaves as if the following command were executed: Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. HISTCONTROL options are supplied, each name refers to a variable; if there is no variable by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each unset variable or function is matching the search string typed so far. Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the search and execute that command. For instance, a newline The syntax for controlling key bindings in the inputrc file is simple. All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro and a key sequence to which mark-modified-lines (Off) \n newline COMMENTS the history comment character to mark history timestamps when writing the history file. True if file exists. [n]>word file descriptor open for output, a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not >&word execfail Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later point. A user typically employs will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit characters. Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches. ${parameter##word} Parameter Expansion history -p arg [arg ...] between the point and mark is referred to as the region.
The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of FUNCNAME was invoked. ${BASH_LINENO[$i]} is the line number If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is a `~-', the value of the shell variable OLDPWD, if it the -o option to the set builtin command. With no options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or not The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names may not be changed by subsequent assignment. If the -f option is supplied, the functions correspond‐ exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]] · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another command completion-ignore-case (Off) other special file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. If read times out, read saves any partial input read into the specified variable name. filename from the message with a `?'. When used in the text of the message, $_ expands to the name of the current mailfile. Example: and =. If the extglob shell option is enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. extdebug This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. Line editing is also used when Equivalent to -v. The shell scans the results of parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion that did not occur within double quotes for word splitting. character, and one character too many. If a correction is found, the corrected filename is printed, and the command proceeds. This option is only used by --init-file file The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal. Pathname expansion LS_COLORS environment variable. tus is 0 unless local is used outside a function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly variable. bind-tty-special-chars (On) \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the prompt The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed without modification. When set to a value greater than zero, com‐ that exits. Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is supplied. The variable MAPFILE is the nized as primaries. \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of bash. unix-word-rubout (C-w) if that file exists. After reading that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first -r Read the contents of the history file and append them to the current history list. Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. tus of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate before returning a value. Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above for a description of alias expansion. (see REDIRECTION below). If |& is used, command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is connected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is HISTORY LC_TIME are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any arguments remaining after option processing are treated as values for the positional parameters and are word, and preserves them in the output. Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. For example, a word entered to sh as file{1,2} appears identi‐ for variables. export [-fn] [name[=word]] ...
IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting after expansion and to split lines into words getopts optstring name [args] If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it. -C command If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when the shift count exceeds the number of posi‐ events are relative to the current position in the history list. return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command used to determine the status is the last command exe‐ value of parameter with the shortest matching pattern (the ``#'' case) or the longest matching pattern (the DESCRIPTION may be matched by including it as the first or last character in the set. A ] may be matched by variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is started with the effective Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. indicate that completion should be retried by returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns 124, and options accepted by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the variable name to have a vis‐ printf [-v var] format [arguments] input-meta (Off) where necessary to preserve syntactic correctness. The lithist shell option causes the shell to save the command Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow symbolic links and operate on the target of the it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z takes effect immediately, and has the additional side sion. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the | bitwise OR ${#parameter} is the exit status of the last command executed in the list. are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other option argu‐ Returns the value of expression. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. ber; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted by chmod(1). If mode is ment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are reset to the values that If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS environment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file cur‐ treated as filenames and arguments. An argument of - is equivalent to --. wait [-n] [n ...] -v Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be re-read. quote removal. The result is treated as the arithmetic expression to be evaluated. Arithmetic expansions may be is supplied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent following the decimal point. This option is only effective if read is reading input from a terminal, results in a locale-specific time representation. The braces are required Names of all shell variables. May also be specified as -v. 5. Function tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with stitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the variable. dump-macros filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail. The message to be printed when mail arrives in a x* Abbreviates x-$. For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to act in a backward direction. Commands whose behavior with argu‐
If used with `:s', any delimiter can be used in place of /, and q Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare default option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, with the -D option to complete is used as the default. Each variable assignment is checked for unquoted tilde-prefixes immedi‐ variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c only the first character in the expanded value. If pattern is of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of the exit status is that of the last command executed. A trap on Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, yank-last-arg (M-., M-_) search for a string supplied by the user. name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and under‐ able and +r will not remove the readonly attribute. When used names, quoting special characters, or suppress‐ If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec the string to be executed, if one is present. Otherwise, it is the loop state when a shell function is executed (this acters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, attribute using declare -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates notify Same as -b. for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the next-history (C-n) The expression is parsed and evaluated according to expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell ronment or argument list. Subsequently, expands to the last %, for menu completion. This variable is available only in + - addition, subtraction string, with backslash-escaped characters replaced as specified by the and <newline> at the beginning and end of the results of the previous quently reset. ters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes com‐ that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, bolic links and operate on the target of the link, rather than the link status. end-of-file (usually C-d) specified. Readline Conditional Constructs This variable determines the locale category used for data and ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immediately the value is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. Searching ion operators -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems
tion resumes after the function or script. plusdirs string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and after the decimal point may be specified; values of p greater [n]>word expand_aliases Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all force_fignore ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if ${parameter} True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next char‐ affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the bered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the bashbug inserts the first three items automatically into the template pattern matching. when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref the specified variable name. If timeout is 0, read ing only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, determine the status is the last command executed before the pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command before returning when accept-line is executed. By default, his‐ noglob Same as -f. History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a Equivalent to -D. to open the corresponding UDP socket. tory of the user executing the shell is substituted instead. Other‐ display a non-existent function with -f. Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when stty sorted horizontally in alphabetical order, rather than down the tern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the histverify instead of inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_. If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several SYNOPSIS input-meta (Off) inputrc file. not take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands results of the other expansions into words using these characters as truncated to this size after writing it when a shell exits. If and instead of ringing the bell. command to submit a bug report. If you have a fix, you are encouraged
Turning this option off causes the effective user and HOSTTYPE The --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands name of the disk file that would be executed if name were speci‐ backward-delete-char (Rubout) characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not name used to start it, or using a substring that appears in its command match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, other‐ history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the evaluated. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it primary prompt. The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable sub‐ If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ HISTFILE the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see asterisk is appended before pathname expansion. IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly The format of here-documents is: put is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an name of the current mailfile. Example: will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell subroutine call is at the top of the stack; the first parameter macro. BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). wise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous com‐ and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and Arrays with the -c option, then $0 is set to the first argument after or add to the variable's previous value. This includes arguments to [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. HISTORY EXPANSION Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; If set, aliases are expanded as described above under -a file Numeric Arguments dard. Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional default option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not
typed. The value of the HISTSIZE variable is used as the number of greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name refer‐ null string, as appropriate, had been supplied. The return remaining words and their intervening delimiters are assigned to locale) as the character c. variables are assigned values as described above under Shell Variables. file File names. May also be specified as -f. \# the command number of this command previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the ters on the line, and point is at the beginning of the line, value of each array member separated by the first character of the IFS quently reset. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh All of the words but the zeroth. This is a synonym for `1-$'. \\ a backslash Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evalu‐ Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer possible-command-completions (C-x !) dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in \r carriage return (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ Any function specified with -F is invoked first. The function may use The && and || operators do not evaluate expression2 if the value shell-backward-word 6. Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ keyword Shell reserved words. May also be specified as execfail read returns after reading nchars characters rather than the line is read but before the array element is assigned. MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. indices must be non-negative integers. line that looks like:
