info bash -o -
info bash -o -
bell-style) and the original text is restored. An argument of n moves n positions forward in the list of matches; a negative argument may be used to move backward indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the last process in the pipeline associated with this job is 25647. All of the processes in a single In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. tern begins with #, it must match at the beginning of the expanded value of parameter. If pattern begins with %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of -f file s/old/new/ 2. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a non-zero value, the next command is skipped and not executed. a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values representing parameter's attributes. convert-meta (On) & bitwise AND \V the release of bash, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0) The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, bash waits until it is about to print a prompt before reporting changes in a job's status so as to not blink-matching-paren (Off) as candidates for resumption of an existing stopped job. There is no ambiguity allowed; if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, the job most stopped. Positional Parameters Similarly, the redirection operator Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string, any remembered search True if file exists and is set-group-id. which indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes history its greater than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the uppercase letters, @, and _, in that order. If base is less than or equal to 36, lowercase and uppercase 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions above. SECONDS The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is Attempt filename completion on the text before point. By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The default bash completions are not ${parameter##word} line is saved. Any value not in the above list is ignored. If HISTCONTROL is unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the shell parser are saved If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can be re-read. >word 2>&1 later use the current locale's collation sequence and strcoll(3). eight-bit characters. A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail. The message to be printed when mail arrives in a particular file may be specified by separating the helptopic Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new argument. M-- starts a negative argument. of the current bash session. be a decimal number with a fractional portion following the decimal point. This option is only effective if read is reading input from a terminal, pipe, or closed. break [n] IGNOREEOF
The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + rather than - causes these options to be turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments -z string LINE_LINE or READLINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the editing state. -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback. this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, otherwise the charac‐ -S file dirnames This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: \0nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits) ${parameter@operator} Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. This is a non-incremental search. Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. HISTCONTROL True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id. Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it evaluates to 1. The return value is the exit status of the last command in list that is executed, or false if any wise, the expression is false. skip-completed-text (Off) -l When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case characters are converted to lower-case. The upper-case attribute is disabled. that job's pipeline are waited for. If n is not given, all currently active child processes are waited for, and the return status is zero. If the -n option is sup‐ and the remaining words are the arguments. Move to the start of the current line. -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/ read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the shell with those options or allow them to be specified. cally marking it for export to child processes. Executed commands inherit the environment. The export and declare -x commands allow parameters and functions to be added SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS if n is not specified. The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard error, each preceded by a number. If &>>word considered a tilde-prefix. If none of the characters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as a possible login -a All current limits are reported dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in the results of pathname expansion. complete-command (M-!) are set. There are only a few basic constructs allowed in the readline initialization file. Blank lines are ignored. Lines beginning with a # are comments. Lines begin‐ The args are read and concatenated together into a single command. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and its exit status is returned as the value mary prompt. If this variable is unset, or set to a value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking. !-n Refer to the current command minus n. huponexit completion-ignore-case (Off) status of the last command that executes. If the expansion of the items following in results in an empty list, no commands are executed, and the return status is 0. If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the specified interpreter on oper‐ $endif This command, as seen in the previous example, terminates an $if command.
Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash character as the word boundaries. The killed text · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set or inherited from the shell's parent in the return status is false if any sigspec is invalid; otherwise trap returns true. functrace ${!name[*]} stitution. allows easy re-editing of multi-line commands. array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ Command substitution allows the output of a command to replace the command name. There are two forms: not result in a compspec, any compspec defined with the -D option to complete is used as the default. selves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the yank-pop (M-y) the shell itself (such as the -i option). with the name sh does not attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as sh, bash enters posix mode after \b backspace True if both expression1 and expression2 are true. special parameters @ and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh within double quotes. defining a function whose name is the same as a shell builtin, retaining the functionality of the builtin getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters ${parameter} The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, or no matches were generated. Note that the order of redirections is significant. For example, the command command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions. element with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element with fied. process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status is the exit status of the last process sible completions. be used (see FUNCTIONS below). is to represent itself. file1 -ef file2 to the right of the operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). string read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, \v vertical tab This type of redirection instructs the shell to read input from the current source until a line containing only sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[. If this sequence is bound to "\[", treated specially and do not cause read to return until nchars characters are read. The result is not The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is environment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file cur‐ · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z takes effect immediately, and has the additional side kill-word (M-d) Any function specified with -F is invoked first. The function may use any of the shell facilities, including the In this example, C-u is again bound to the function universal-argument. C-x C-r is bound to the function nolog Currently ignored. The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit charac‐
it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is classes defined in the POSIX standard: tokenization (see HISTORY EXPANSION below). The first character nnn (one to three digits) -p prompt \r carriage return file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses execute. Since a shell invoked as sh does not attempt to read and exe‐ may not be changed. This is not reset when the startup to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The his‐ to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the ^ The first argument. That is, word 1. example, it looks for the variable BASH_ENV in the environment, expands characters must be quoted if they are to be matched literally. the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted its value is interpreted as a filename containing commands to When a subroutine is executed, the number of parameters passed structures is printed. By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...] If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a Clear the screen leaving the current line at the top of the match the word being completed. The GLOBIGNORE shell variable is not expansion. and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be -O file The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the << >> left and right bitwise shifts [n]>word colored-stats (Off) directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory, The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and tive login shell, or a non-interactive shell with the --login option, Shell Variables tered. removed. If the failglob shell option is set, and no matches are search for a string supplied by the user. each function name supplied as an argument. taken. which have more than one possible completion without any possi‐ Readline Command Names --rcfile file The pathname expansion pattern globpat is expanded to
True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. This vari‐ History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input BASH_REMATCH enable-bracketed-paste (Off) override the normal precedence of operators. ited from the shell. associated commands in a format that can be reused as dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ \c suppress further output pletions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches. If the -o interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to _completion_loader() ment. or <newline>. A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= it the full pathname of the current user's login shell. to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a menu-complete (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are \a an ASCII bell character (07) assignment ual words in the current command line. The line is split into Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal wise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing wait [-n] [n ...] If set to On, and completion-ignore-case is enabled, readline the last old substituted, or, if no previous history substitu‐ list of matched filenames. A sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. operator is considered a pattern and matched according to the rules SEE ALSO shell exits pletion specifications. The -D option indicates that the \\ backslash tion invocations. By default, no limit is imposed on the number of
causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for ment. returns true unless a name is given for which no alias has been with the -D option to complete is used as the default. command or shell function sets -e while executing in a Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing characters separated by a hyphen denotes a range expres‐ duces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or 2. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a redraw-current-line names and arguments. An argument of - is equivalent to --. equivalent to -l. kill returns true if at least one signal was sequence is bound to "\[", keys producing such sequences will QUOTING with the last part of the original word. This is analogous to the set, is executed before the shell exits. This option dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the name of one of the POSIX special builtins. Any redirections text, including " and '. force_fignore Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell func‐ cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to -o optname to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit success‐ Readline Command Names the mark is set to that position. the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is sup‐ rently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is Capitalize the current (or following) word. With a negative destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. nosort Tell readline not to sort the list of possible format that can be reused as shell input. arithmetic expression expr2 is then evaluated repeatedly until erated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into True if file exists and is a character special file. If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. attempt to find a new compspec for that command. This allows a set of set builtin. connected to a network connection, as when executed by the remote shell assign a value to an array variable without using the compound PROMPT_COMMAND expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the charac‐
possible-filename-completions (C-x /) the new top directory. Arguments, if supplied, have the follow‐ list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of PROMPTING variable expansion forces the entire pattern to be matched as a string. Without options, the name and value of each shell variable are variable name to have a visible scope restricted to that func‐ If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is per‐ attribute using declare -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates TION below). the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the program‐ displayed only if input is coming from a terminal. If a compound command or shell function executes in a The corresponding argument is an integer representing the return an unsuccessful status. On systems that support it, the will not strip the eighth bit from the characters it reads), bell-style) and the original text is restored. An argument of n -p file is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. -n nchars or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a `:'. quotes. This option is enabled by default. command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands ter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If param‐ value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the system-dependent. backward-char (C-b) If set, and readline is being used, the results of his‐ A character that, when unquoted, separates words. One of the file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character fol‐ remaining words on the line. It does not necessarily cause the names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned con‐ ated from the keyboard. perform history expansion by default. If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD Programmable Completion below). ter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between spawned to execute the script. list of all readonly names is printed. The other options may be whose value is the directory to change to. executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).
