info bash -o -
info bash -o -
reference to a document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior. Print all of the settable readline variables and their values to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. If set to On, readline will inhibit word completion. Completion characters will be inserted into the line as if they had been mapped to self-insert. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or name. If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home directory of the user executing [n]<>word Each time this parameter is referenced, the number of seconds since shell invocation is returned. If a value is assigned to SECONDS, the value returned upon subse‐ sion of word. vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. mand word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched for first. If no compspec is found for the full pathname, an attempt is made to find a compspec Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches. Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). and do not affect the current shell environment. If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a readonly variable, an error occurs, and the command exits with a and each completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching · parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at startup \a alert (bell) BASH_REMATCH If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is interpreted as a filename containing commands to initialize the shell, as in ~/.bashrc. for (( expr1 ; expr2 ; expr3 )) ; do list ; done When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that consists of the following. Unless ((expression)) Matches anything except one of the given patterns characters before point. Negative arguments have no effect. The user file-creation mask is set to mode. If mode begins with a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value substituted is the number of positional \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format -p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, and the SHEL‐ Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- \M- meta prefix This is semantically equivalent to inherit_errexit PS3 The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). play or modify the history list and manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to forces the entire pattern to be matched as a string. Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular expression are saved in the array variable supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion. status. The shell does not exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following a while or until keyword, part of the test fol‐
compat32 stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change fails. \# the command number of this command If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero. $(command) -N nchars waiting for an asynchronous command via the wait builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an by a /, only directories and subdirectories match. builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. Coprocesses Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell variables may also be referenced If -s is supplied, the output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a LC_CTYPE /dev/tcp/host/port Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, insert the nth word from the previous Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the options. The :, true, posix mode is enabled. described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are prefix-matched against the wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. provides functionality analogous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a stopped compat40 below). no limit is imposed on the number of recursive calls. When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not escaped by a backslash or within a quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, com‐ sion; a & in the pattern is replaced with the text of the word being completed. A literal & may be escaped with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a && logical AND the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. Bash can be configured to supply a default value for this variable (there is no value by default), but the location of the user mail files that it uses is system chronously (in the background), it prints a line that looks like: for the portion following the final slash. If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined with the -D option to complete is used as the default. legal, and bash will create an array if necessary. shell and by the commands it invokes. If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap commands associated with each sigspec are displayed. If no -C If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with the >, >&, and <> redirection operators. This may be overridden when creating output files by using True if string1 sorts after string2 lexicographically. File descriptor 2 is duplicated. The personal initialization file, executed for login shells ables. Read-only variables cannot be reset. In posix mode, only shell variables are listed. The output is sorted according to the current locale. When options %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input. the function body. If return is executed by a trap handler, the last command used to determine the status is the last command executed before the trap handler. if
jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ] If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes with back‐ shift [n] cally set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. is the event, and the portions of that line that are acted upon are words. Various modifiers are available to manip‐ \" double quote parameter expands to a separate word. That is, "$@" is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ... If the double-quoted prevent parameter expansion. command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero. Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the undo command enough times to return the line but faster $(< file). &>word invoke $VISUAL, $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. encountered. is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. Non-numeric values and numeric values less than zero cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory component in a cd command will be corrected. The cally set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. -N nchars -F function The following variables are set by the shell: If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about that job. The return status is 0 unless an not the subshell. If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion. Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell. If set to none, readline never rings the tional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it will dis‐ Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off (without regard to case). Unrecognized variable not store the results in the history list. Each arg must be quoted to disable normal history expan‐ If a compound command or shell function executes in a context where -e is being ignored, none of the If a command is not found, the child process created to execute it returns a status of 127. If a command is found sh(1), ksh(1), csh(1) -a All current limits are reported beginning of the line do not match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, otherwise the characters True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of options under the description of the -o option attribute modifications to the variable whose name was passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the removal. Each pattern examined is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arith‐ Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of bash. The hardware and operating system using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is unset, or its value is exactly <space><tab><newline>, the no names are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion options for each name or the current first character of the IFS special variable. When @ is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, files. Q The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter quoted in a format that can be reused as login_shell Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words if they are filenames (quoting filenames is the
field terminators. If IFS is unset, or its value is exactly [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] search without subsequently executing the character as a com‐ lowed by digits, executing universal-argument again ends the -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file. dabbrev-expand compat31 suspend [-f] [n]<&word or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as -v varname (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next char‐ tional parameters when filename is executed. Otherwise the Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non- override the normal precedence of operators. --verbose An associative array variable whose members correspond to the When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If capitalize-word (M-c) needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains value of $$, and the value of PPID primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the currently in the execution call stack. The element with index 0 *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by named command_not_found_handle. If that function exists, it is invoked preted as relative to one greater than the maximum index of the array, LC_CTYPE used to override this and force the suspension. The return sta‐ regardless of what the terminal claims it can support. The name unary or binary primaries. Bash handles several filenames specially complete key sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, lines are appended to the history file, otherwise the history file is the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently One line is read from the standard input, or from the file each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number passed to the shell parser. Instead, the expanded line is reloaded or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is TOU, and SIGTSTP. commands (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The first word of each 4. The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list various shell variables set by the programmable completion
BASH_SUBSHELL $include plied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias unit. e Remove all but the trailing suffix. list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list the positional parameters are printed (see PARAMETERS below). builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options script]=string. Indexed array assignments do not require anything but File descriptor 1 is duplicated. For example, placing last character of the alias value is a blank, then the next command variables is printed. The -n option causes the export property without job control. return status is always true unless an invalid option is encoun‐ PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is read‐ set by default, which is the default bash behavior in case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac command1 && command2 invalid; otherwise trap returns true. immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that abbreviated with a tilde file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not. \0nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by fashion. EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell name of a file containing shell commands. If bash is invoked in this used, $0 is prefixed to the list. the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Remove matching prefix pattern. The word is expanded to produce This means that dollar signs in variable names that nnn (one to three digits) option indicates that the remaining options and actions should · the current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or and arithmetic comparisons. Expressions are formed from the following overwrite-mode A synonym for yank-last-arg. directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Alternative or tus of the last command executed, or zero if no condition tested : [arguments] expanded. If any words remain after expansion, the first word name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its value if it is below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If the value of the expres‐ getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parame‐
may be any command listed under Compound Commands above, with quently reset. expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts versions of sh. sh does not treat opening or closing braces specially complete key sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, convert-meta (On) and not null. However, setting GLOBIGNORE to a non-null value has the [ expr ] Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding elements in the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the read‐ %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The invalid; otherwise trap returns true. %P The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R. mand. display a non-existent function with -f. file1 -nt file2 ing how the timing information for pipelines prefixed with the tive shells. are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a Tilde Expansion variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which rent job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the foreground \\ backslash Characters removed are replaced with an ellipsis. one started with the --login option. -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating is executed as if it were the argument to the cd com‐ setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set the current history list. following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted using ing mode, the terminal being used, or the application using The declare, local, and readonly builtins each accept a -a option to make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest auto_resume x* Abbreviates x-$. defined. pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands
plied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indica‐ A parameter is an entity that stores values. It can be a name, a num‐ ing symbol symbol. environment. This option is enabled when posix mode is All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro If readline is being used to read the line, text is there are three arguments. If the first argument is !, interface supplied jointly by the operating system kernel's terminal interpreted by default. The xpg_echo shell option may be used <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not bashdefault The list of shopt options is: -x Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the ment. returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, shift [n] set to 500. ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command. to that job. In output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the time reserved word should be displayed. The % character intro‐ emacs(1), vi(1) expr1 , expr2 variable name passed as the first argument. References and assignments unsetting array elements currently does not cause aliases to be editing-mode (emacs) which case fc returns failure. zero. The until command is identical to the while command, options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active. if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to stitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded Remove each name from the list of defined aliases. If -a is value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the PROMPT_COMMAND function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell func‐ not a valid unary conditional operator, the expression is OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a pletes, the shell prints a line containing its exit sta‐ --dump-strings or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is direxpand played in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts
