info bash -o -
info bash -o -
options may be used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as -o option-name It's too big and too slow. HOSTFILE Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned to the readline completion history-search-forward in warning and error messages. RESTRICTED SHELL the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified by the additional options. If no other options are supplied with -p, declare will display · current traps set by trap backward-char (C-b) ``<space><tab><newline>''. Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. -X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the associated commands in a format that can be reused as input. A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suffix matches one of the entries in FIGNORE A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form Operator precedence is used when there are five or more arguments. An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of FUNCNAME was invoked. ${BASH_LINENO[$i]} is the line number the shell is substituted instead. Otherwise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated with the specified login name. of the whitespace characters space, tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, then -f is assumed. Values are in word being completed, and the matching words become the possible completions. True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully. If the reserved word ! precedes a pipeline, the exit sta‐ \\ a backslash reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The -p option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. a command failed while -e was being ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the ls 2>&1 > dirlist CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. digit is closed after being duplicated to n. shell option nullglob is not enabled, the word is left unchanged. If the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is removed. If the failglob shell 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh exponentiation possible-completions (M-?) on which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; otherwise it will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file argument to one of the If set to On, when listing completions, readline displays the common prefix of the set of possible completions using a different color. The color definitions are When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not escaped by a backslash or within a quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, com‐ An array variable containing the names of all shell functions currently in the execution call stack. The element with index 0 is the name of any currently-executing with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without If timeout is 0, read returns immediately, without trying to read any data. The exit status is 0 if input is available on the specified file descriptor, non- $ The last word. This is usually the last argument, but will expand to the zeroth word if there is only one word in the line. extquote and word splitting are not performed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n
Control-o: "> output" If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose name results from the expansion following history entry. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a Delete all spaces and tabs around point. execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of possible-username-completions (C-x ~) bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell expansion, and quote removal (see EXPANSION below). If the variable has its integer attribute set, then value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) supplied. NAME history-and-alias-expand-line UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. If so, that word is replaced by the text of the alias. The characters /, $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters listed above may not appear of the command placed into the foreground, or failure if run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, if jobspec does not specify a valid -s Silent mode. If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed. $if Bash or Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned to the readline completion enable-keypad (Off) help [-dms] [pattern] With no options, display the command history list with line numbers. Lines listed with a 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh have been modified. An argument of n lists only the last n lines. If Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new top of the stack the current working directory. With no arguments, pushd Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional parameters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by default. If offset is 0, and the positional binding Readline key binding names. a list of one or more patterns separated by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: · parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at startup logout Exit a login shell. -F function BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). When the shell is in posix mode, time may be followed by a newline. In this case, the shell displays the total user and system time consumed by the shell and its children. \e an ASCII escape character (033) ger value greater than or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether or one may use filenames with tildes in assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the expanded value. chet.ramey@case.edu Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the histverify shell option is enabled (see the descrip‐ RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between 0 and 32767 is generated. The sequence of random numbers may be initialized by assigning a value to The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in upcoming versions of bash. mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may be used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change fails.
complete_fullquote control. If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is duplicated. A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A coprocess is executed asynchronously in a LINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are simply listed on the terminal. When the shell is in posix mode, time may be followed by a newline. In this case, the shell displays the total user logout Exit a login shell. under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument of typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] been given the integer attribute using declare -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates to 0. A shell vari‐ Word Splitting in the foreground. Background processes are those whose process group ID differs from the terminal's; such processes \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence may be overridden when creating output files by using the redirection operator >| instead of >. This is semantically equivalent to 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions above. with the history comment character, so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history comment Same as -E. read [-ers] [-a aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] there is a single sigspec) or -, each specified signal is reset to its original disposition (the value it had LC_COLLATE If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and This variable determines the locale category used for data and time formatting. the current line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the time. whether or not the fraction is included. A non-quoted backslash (\) is the escape character. It preserves the literal value of the next character that fol‐ pletion. This changes the contents of the readline editing buffer. If not set, bash attempts to pre‐ link, rather than the link itself. option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error -P If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when executing commands such as cd that change the <= >= < > Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating or adding directories to the stack, so that If parameter is @ or *, the operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is and %+ refer to the shell's notion of the current job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the foreground 5 or more arguments break [n] end-of-line (C-e) Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to -r option removes a completion specification for each name, or, if no names are supplied, all completion spec‐ \UHHHHHHHH descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. -b The maximum socket buffer size
For each name in the argument list for which no value is sup‐ Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. Bash is used to generate a list of matching filenames for possible if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found. blanks) is seen. All of the lines read up to that point are then used expanded value. Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alpha‐ In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirec‐ (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) file1 -ef file2 than or equal to 1. first directory in the stack. following: by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case plete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. List the possible completions of the text before point, treating Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as executed by the trap handler before return was invoked. If an indexed array name subscripted by a negative number, that [n]>>word an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one words as readline would split it, using COMP_WORDBREAKS as -l Make bash act as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see or hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names the exceptions that +a may not be used to destroy an array vari‐ behavior of historical versions of sh as closely as possible, while The rules concerning the definition and use of aliases are somewhat READLINE_LINE COMP_KEY to using the syntax name[subscript]=value. The subscript is treated as read [-ers] [-a aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p with the -D option to complete is used as the default. file as a directory. An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD ".:~:/usr". If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control characters tern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and ted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the re‐ startup ignorespace, lines which begin with a space character are not name=[value] An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current con‐ shell environment. When the function is executed, the
the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may depends on the number of arguments; see below. Operator prece‐ If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the status. Each n may be a process ID or a job specification; if a option requires an argument, getopts places that argument into $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are cated. passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the nameref command. directory. With no arguments, pushd exchanges the top two turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding then %(datefmt)T display the result on the standard output. Does not a terminal control sequence into the mode string. if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi current version. The valid compatibility levels correspond to using the current locale. deleted using the -f option to the unset builtin. Note that shell Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expan‐ words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and stack is manipulated. Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is QUOTING effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames copy-forward-word nothing (i.e., they are removed). tions are taken from the value of the LS_COLORS environment rent completion function. %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case line in turn. Any numeric argument supplied to these successive pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by is effective only when job control is enabled. last command used to determine the status is the last command builtin shell-builtin [arguments] or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline will wait ters bound to self-insert replace the text at point rather than comments. The interactive_comments option is on by default in interac‐ Shell Variables the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and Move to the first line in the history. complete-command (M-!)
Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key \c suppress further output the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set Delete the history entry at position offset. to the shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions -r Read the contents of the history file and append them to File descriptor 1 is duplicated. completion specifications are printed in a way that allows them string, with backslash-escaped characters replaced as specified by the (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are acters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, conditional expression expression. Expressions are composed of mand name. There are two forms: Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically An interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments recursive calls. << >> left and right bitwise shifts READLINE_POINT invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history x Quote the substituted words as with q, but break into words at command substitutions, and commands executed in a sub‐ Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. when the shell begins executing in that environment. The ini‐ FUNCTIONS meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. True if file exists and is a symbolic link. specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done ${!prefix*} mark-symlinked-directories (Off) that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, single simple command), a list, or a compound command of the shell variables HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL. pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of the number of words of the expansion; other expansions expand a single second exit is attempted without an intervening command LANG Used to determine the locale category for any category not default. easy re-editing of multi-line commands. The format for a coprocess is:
If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the errors that cause the shell to exit), and does not reset stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This forward-word (M-f) to one greater than the maximum index of name, so negative indices it the full pathname of the current user's login shell. A character is read and point is moved to the previous occur‐ fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit Swap the point with the mark. The current cursor position is \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME removed. If the failglob shell option is set, and no matches are ters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes com‐ first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than complete-filename (M-/) acters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT the unalias command. next-history (C-n) standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and character in the set. (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for which the arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) more digits, the file descriptor denoted by n is made to be a copy of ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the pletion after all other options have been applied. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. that file descriptor. If the digits in word do not specify a file It's too big and too slow. kill-line (C-k) value of each array member separated by the first character of the IFS For each name in the argument list for which no value is sup‐ it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, con‐ the exit status of command. bash: Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name the nameref variable will be unset. most useful when used in combination with a default completion speci‐ bind-tty-special-chars (On) ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a ! expr True if expr is false.
