info bash -o -
info bash -o -
-o comp-option The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as a token. kill-whole-line -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated abort (C-g) For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. [n]>word -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is sup‐ Lists Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows commands' file handles to be SEE ALSO [[ expression ]] $if Bash exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. digit is closed after being duplicated to n. When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. right hand side (that is, to insert the text ``> output'' into the line). setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin. operate-and-get-next (C-o) Delete all spaces and tabs around point. no jobspec is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a jobspec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may be used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for \a alert (bell) command and its expanded arguments or associated word list. and unit are printed before the value. Other options are interpreted as follows: This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence · parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at startup tor. Each operator is a single letter: filterpat is removed. \D{format} \a an ASCII bell character (07) attempt to match more than one character. The ^ operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase let‐ %(datefmt)T string1 > string2 Equivalent to -v. -N file -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ Perform history expansion on the current line. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. sidered binary operators when there are three arguments. If the first argument is !, the value is the negation of the two-argument test using the second and The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey
regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syn‐ code as the list of possible completions. inherited unless the -o errtrace shell option has been enabled. complete-variable (M-$) end-of-history (M->) it exists. The list of shopt options is: huponexit This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE. Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding elements in BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE to describe the call Lists EXPANSION unset, or its value is exactly <space><tab><newline>, the default, then sequences of <space>, <tab>, and <newline> at the beginning and end of the results of the previous If set to On, readline will inhibit word completion. Completion characters will be inserted into the line as if they had been mapped to self-insert. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script. True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. Matches anything except one of the given patterns is on by default if the shell is invoked as sh. _completion_loader() e Remove all but the trailing suffix. READLINE_POINT HISTCONTROL supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale. Note that both x and y must be of the same Move back a character. -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top. Commands for Changing Text bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input. file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame cuted. If command is not specified, any redirections take effect in the current shell, and the return status is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return sta‐ Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later point. A user typically employs xpg_echo -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum. failglob BASH_VERSINFO[0] The major version number (the release). Word Splitting if one is available. If set to audible, readline attempts to ring the terminal's bell. Attempt filename completion on the text before point. array values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments. process is running causes that process to be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is -r file pwd [-LP] TIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP.
to the --debugger option. If set after invocation, behavior intended for use by debuggers is enabled: True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the result of the expression is the slash will quote any other character in the macro text, including " and '. exits with a non-zero value. See also the exit builtin command below. Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its parent. When If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, and the return status is 0. popd returns followed by resolving the link after processing instances of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed decreased below a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is a maximum value (currently 8192) that this may not the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of the If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time fied. digit is closed after being duplicated to n. A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A coprocess is executed asynchronously in a The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions: been supplied. The return value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. given. When more than one resource is specified, the limit name and unit are printed before the value. Other being completed. A literal & may be escaped with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as necessary. This is an $(command) commands and bindings. continue [n] \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format option to declare or typeset will list the function names only (and optionally the source file and line number, if verbose Same as -v. do not perform history expansion by default. use. Without options, displays the list of currently remembered directories. The default display is on a single ber of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether tion) also refers to the current job. ENVIRONMENT value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell. is the resultant list. The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. history [n] Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns complete-username (M-~) history line to its original state. If set to On, readline displays possible completions using different colors to indicate their file type. The \n newline to the function in which local is invoked: shell options changed using the set builtin inside the function are The shell scans the results of parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion that did not occur the results differ as described below. If length is omitted, expands to the substring of the value of parame‐ -C If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with the >, >&, and <> redirection operators. This as explained below under Special Parameters. Pathname expansion is not performed. Assignment statements may also shell and by the commands it invokes. If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap commands 4. The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command sub‐
receipt of a SIGWINCH. nected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is shorthand are expanded. Backslash will quote any other character in the macro semicolon to delimit commands. the value is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. daemon, usually rshd, or the secure shell daemon sshd. If bash deter‐ If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts # are comments. Lines beginning with a $ indicate conditional con‐ is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option A character is read and point is moved to the previous occur‐ or <newline>. A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIGCONT to ensure that they receive the above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate the output. The same word is output as file1 file2 after expansion by the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the first shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ A positional parameter is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, match-hidden-files (On) patibility level. If BASH_COMPAT is unset or set to the empty shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. bash [options] [command_string | file] pletion specifications. The -D option indicates that the For example, placing set to value. When using -a or -A and the compound assignment lines by removing the oldest entries. The history file is also number of seconds since the epoch. Two special argument the first word of a simple command. The shell maintains a list of list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable or zero if no commands were executed. attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute removal operation is applied to each member of the array in ${parameter:?word} The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of pos‐ command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COL‐ expansion character, but the history expansion character is also as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file'. value of parameter starting at the character specified by offset the -p option is not also used. The table of hashed commands is to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the message and returns an exit status of 127. Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file Q The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter
shopt_option is present, -O sets the value of that option; +O -X filterpat executed within the compound command or function body -m keymap Arrays parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value any compspec defined with the -E option to complete is used. If a \a alert (bell) Causes a function to stop executing and return the value speci‐ supplied, all alias definitions are removed. The return value sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline yank-pop (M-y) string, any remembered search string is used. The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' \] end a sequence of non-printing characters The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array bound to insert the text ``Function Key 1''. emacs(1), vi(1) value of 2, and the shell is executing in a sub‐ ning of the current command. If the current cursor position is shell-expand-line (M-C-e) indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process being entered. unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and foreground. Similarly, ``%1 &'' resumes job 1 in the background, the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words ${!name[*]} -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating test fails. associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to the value is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. reference to another variable. That other variable is ++id --id The expression is parsed and evaluated according to effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames current bash session. || & && ; ;; ;& ;;& ( ) | |& <newline> of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a transpose-words (M-t) ted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the re‐ and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COL‐ files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION to open the corresponding TCP socket.
unix-line-discard (C-u) strings they output. If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between sequences by default. cuted from filename. If filename does not contain a slash, arithmetic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word fied with complete -D. It's possible for shell functions executed as the bell. plete line (no implicit `*' is appended). Each pattern is AUTHORS ${!name[*]} If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or ${parameter%word} command [-pVv] command [arg ...] names and arguments. An argument of - is equivalent to --. (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are Read key bindings from filename. variable name passed as the first argument. References and assignments G Apply the following `s' modifier once to each word in the event matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using %?ce, on the The following variables are set by the shell: opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. spec generates no matches. \C- control prefix The redirection operator _completion_loader() arrive. and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory ls 2>&1 > dirlist is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remem‐ noexec Same as -n. or Provides control over the resources available to the shell and word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions filenames ``.'' and ``..'' are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each double quote inside the parentheses is not treated specially. All waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ able by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each the symbolic character names are not recognized. before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION \n new line If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the errtrace When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support
ing meanings: any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting; and pathname expan‐ placed in the environment for a command, not just those command to exit with a non-zero status. + - addition, subtraction A positional parameter is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts Controls whether readline begins with a set of key bindings sim‐ Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more %(datefmt)T by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the fol‐ This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) environment. dren. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a problem. \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments. expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. history -p arg [arg ...] fer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell when performing tilde expansion. Redirections using file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with the LS_COLORS environment variable. equivalent to ``bg %1''. Appending Redirected Output defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number. Signal names are ter sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the cesses are waited for, and the return status is zero. If the -n If either -s or -u is used with no optname arguments, shopt is set to the real user id. If the -p option is sup‐ True if file exists and is a regular file. select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done --init-file file FUNCTIONS mand associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execu‐ rather than - causes these options to be turned off. The history Enable command history, as described above under destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to current version. If BASH_COMPAT is set to a value that is not
