info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The args are read and concatenated together into a single command. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and its exit status is returned as the value Quote Removal -k file COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an unnamed coprocess (see Coprocesses above). List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset. Otherwise, the positional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them $ The last word. This is usually the last argument, but will expand to the zeroth word if there is only one word in the line. TION below). the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each completions after successive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word completion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or %, for menu com‐ -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each input line, rather than newline. instances of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a slash or the beginning of -l List process IDs in addition to the normal information. Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a negative argument. This command is E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter with backslash escape sequences expanded as with the $'...' quoting mechansim. Shell Variables "\e[11~": "Function Key 1" If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by is used similarly to duplicate output file descriptors. If n is not specified, the standard output (file descriptor 1) is used. If the digits in word do not specify a unit. if any, and execute any associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the last command The redirection operator \d the date in "Weekday Month Date" format (e.g., "Tue May 26") ``<space><tab><newline>''. Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred to using a filename. It takes the form of <(list) or >(list). The process list is run asyn‐ HOSTNAME The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an ini‐ The redirection operator 1. The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source file name and line number corresponding to each function name supplied as an argument. Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is supplied. The variable MAPFILE is the -n string the status is greater than 128), a variable assignment error (such as assigning to a readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The -p option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose name results from the expansion one greater than the maximum index of the array, so negative indices count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. will terminate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from the history list. BASH_EXECUTION_STRING
True if file exists and is a regular file. arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Conditional operators such as -f must be unquoted to be recog‐ the -o option to the set builtin command. With no options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or not The command number and the history number are usually different: the history number of a command is its position in the history list, which may include commands restored -b Report the status of terminated background jobs immediately, rather than before the next primary prompt. This is effective only when job control is enabled. stopped. HOME The home directory of the current user; the default argument for the cd builtin command. The value of this variable is also used when performing tilde expansion. it exists. status. The shell does not exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following a while or until keyword, part of the test fol‐ This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. Line editing is also used when colored-completion-prefix (Off) -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file. These are history lines entered since the beginning of the current bash session, but not already $if Bash COMP_LINE, COMP_POINT, COMP_KEY, and COMP_TYPE variables are assigned values as described above under Shell Variables. If a shell function is being invoked, the COMP_WORDS \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ reset the loop state when a shell function is executed (this allows break or continue in a shell function to affect loops in the caller's context). is escaped using a backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. start-kbd-macro (C-x () BUGS Matches one of the given patterns enable-bracketed-paste (Off) If set, bash quotes all shell metacharacters in filenames and directory names when performing completion. If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as BASH_XTRACEFD quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as Each time this parameter is referenced, the number of seconds since shell invocation is returned. If a value is assigned to SECONDS, the value returned upon subse‐ BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the programmable completion facilities are invoked. resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the C-Meta-u: universal-argument standard output. Backslash may be used to escape a newline, if necessary. The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is set variable-name value enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi insertion (+). Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. --debugger ties, even if it is subsequently reset. and completion. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any additional arguments following dir are True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). An array variable whose members are the source filenames where the corresponding shell function names in the FUNCNAME array variable are defined. The shell function histexpand · setting or unsetting the values of SHELL, PATH, ENV, or BASH_ENV BASH_ALIASES
string (see PROMPTING below). interactive_comments A synonym for yank-last-arg. tional parameter. It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname would not return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, even if ``type -t name'' would not possible-command-completions (C-x !) without intervening separators. value of mark-directories). if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word of the simple command. the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of the History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat commands, EXPANSION shell. Redirection allows commands' file handles to be duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer to different files, effective user id is not reset. PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and displayed by interactive shells after read‐ Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening charac‐ BASH_ALIASES interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). When a function is executed, the arguments to ls 2>&1 > dirlist startup files, as if the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set while the shell is run‐ COPYRIGHT \f form feed emacs(1), vi(1) expansion. only the stack is manipulated. This is semantically equivalent to When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as invoked. When the command or function is invoked, the COMP_LINE, COMP_POINT, COMP_KEY, and COMP_TYPE variables are as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell normally searches COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options. readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] for re-running the previous command entered, substituting one string for another in the command. The default --noediting Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top. Only works following yank or yank-pop. Redirecting Input than down the screen. the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. ble completion matches. # Quote the current or previous word Parameter Expansion execute. Bash behaves as if the following command were executed: a defined shell function named command_not_found_handle. If that function exists, it is invoked with the original disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde The option-name can be one of the following:
-D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed assigned value. The option can be any of the options accepted 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Matches any string, including the null string. When the removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses lowing the history expansion character, even if it is unquoted: space, operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the char‐ -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes pushd [-n] [+n] [-n] The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey the list is a valid argument for the -o option to the set True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the string. If pattern begins with /, all matches of pattern are Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control- are read. The result is not split on the characters in The option-name can be one of the following: value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. q Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. locale and the values of the LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell reads and executes commands from /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command Clear the screen leaving the current line at the top of the version of bash. The latest version is always available from Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top. Only works follow‐ BASH_LINENO from the shell. If a sigspec is DEBUG, the command arg is exe‐ The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the file File names. May also be specified as -f. wise the characters in comment-begin are deleted from the begin‐ (if the text begins with @), or command (including aliases and commands' file handles to be duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer value. The null string is a valid value. bash. builtins same location on each history line retrieved with previous-his‐ The shell sets this option if it is started in tive shells. -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the
Generate possible completion matches for word according to the into words as described above under Word Splitting, and the name is not found or an invalid option is supplied. fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parame‐ digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pat‐ sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each %% A literal %. and the substitution of the result. The format for arithmetic expan‐ Characters removed are replaced with an ellipsis. reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is sup‐ interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input Each command in a pipeline is executed as a separate process (i.e., in e Remove all but the trailing suffix. tory timestamps when writing the history file. Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...) If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, given the trace attribute (see the description of the declare builtin exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by noclobber shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] ".:~:/usr". array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that tion while the function is executing. If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a -v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, pre‐ progcomp ately following a : or the first =. In these cases, tilde expansion is characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if executed. If the -p option is given, the search for command is named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is directories and subdirectories. If followed by a /, two set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...] against lines from the history list for possible completion -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. run the macro expressed on the right hand side (that is, to insert the additional input. If this variable is set to a value less than function is invoked, the COMP_LINE, COMP_POINT, COMP_KEY, and COMP_TYPE
POSIXLY_CORRECT below, to generate the matches. It must put the possible completions tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as a possible login name. the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) ment and replacing the command substitution with the standard output of matches. kill ring. Consecutive kills cause the text to be accumulated into one when they are used in expressions. If the operating system on which not take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below). 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described history-size (unset) list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, otherwise it will emulate them internally with the behavior described Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off The corresponding argument is an integer representing the If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline the line is read but before the array element is assigned. execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell even if it is subsequently reset. sequently reset. The exit status is true unless a name is read‐ clear-screen (C-l) character found. taken. and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions to be interpreted as part of its name. The parameter is a shell option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the shells. The -d option will delete a builtin previously loaded with -f. isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a The command arg is to be read and executed when the shell notify Same as -b. unix-line-discard (C-u) colored-stats (Off) Functions may be recursive. The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and mands without redirections are treated as candidates for resump‐ !(pattern-list) is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option not read within timeout seconds. timeout may be a deci‐ After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the charac‐ the -l option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the begin‐
coprocess is executed asynchronously in a subshell, as if the command other options have been applied. valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off read‐ score. Also referred to as an identifier. nocasematch bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave ment. line, behaves identically to possible-completions. This command values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash. addition to the standard printf(1) format specifications, printf Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with globstar exit if exec fails. Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a ercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is Commands for Manipulating the History GNU Bash 4.4 2016 August 26 BASH(1) fashion when performing pathname expansion (see Pathname punct space upper word xdigit !(pattern-list) -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on $include TORY below). The default value is ~/.bash_history. If unset, required to each resulting string, expanding left to right. PROMPTING Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. given, the names refer to functions. If no names are given, or in a double-quoted string. nesting level will cause the current command to abort. -s The maximum stack size Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning driver and bash. able. mand. If this variable has not been given a value, the charac‐ if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported values they had prior to the function's execution. unset. n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to Arithmetic Expansion the value of HISTFILE is used. Options, if supplied, have the sion is:
