info bash -o -
info bash -o -
If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, bash will write the trace output generated when set -x is enabled to that file descriptor. The file completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared. Array variable names. True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed. COPYRIGHT -p The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set) they lose their special properties, even if they are subsequently reset. The exit status is true unless a name is readonly. is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is HISTORY EXPANSION tor. Each operator is a single letter: if that file exists. After reading that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first tive shell exits, unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it returns failure. An interactive shell returns failure if the file cannot be exe‐ start-kbd-macro (C-x () returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirections specified by the command -d file True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. If parameter is @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. contexts where it is performed, those words are subject to further word splitting and pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, it expands quoted-insert (C-q, C-v) history-search-forward If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by history-expand-line (M-^) -R varname ~/.bash_logout 4 arguments . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions above. case. The filenames ``.'' and ``..'' are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set and not null. However, setting GLOBIGNORE to a non-null value has the effect of enabling job Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as -j. arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of sig‐ If a word designator is supplied without an event specification, the previous command is used as the event. -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues --posix tion below). \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name --verbose The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). complete_fullquote false, and test builtins do not accept options and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, continue, let, and shift builtins accept and process argu‐ Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, -u The maximum number of processes available to a single user whitespace character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters, delimits a field. A sequence of IFS whitespace
! expr True if expr is false. In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to run the macro expressed on the comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. -d offset directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard output was redirected to dirlist. Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. The matches will be generated in the same way as if the programmable completion code had generated them directly from a completion specification with the same flags. braces denote optional portions. Kill the text in the current region. Any function specified with -F is invoked first. The function may use any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described below, to generate the matches. the history expansion character is also treated as quoted if it immediately precedes the closing double quote in a double-quoted string. by the shell. only attribute. When used in a function, declare and typeset make each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a variable name an unsuccessful status. On systems that support it, the -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a file as a directory. An argument of - is con‐ builtins and shell control structures is printed. special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) If set, the source (.) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file supplied as an argument. This option is enabled by default. Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules above. on the history list, subject to the value of HISTIGNORE. The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the his‐ without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Note that when using range expressions like [a-z] (see below), letters of the other case may be included, depending on instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and emacs-ctlx keymaps only if readline is starting out in emacs mode. Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remembered. Any previously-remembered path‐ the -T option is enabled, source inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to source, and source unsets The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain circumstances (see the let and declare builtin commands, the (( compound command, and Arithmetic This is another way to specify an argument. If this command is followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus sign, those digits define the argu‐ BASH_VERSINFO[0] The major version number (the release). the next to last. \E an escape character to and deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the environment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, replacing the old. The This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, -u The maximum number of processes available to a single user BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the programmable completion facilities are invoked. Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable. BASH_REMATCH. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index n is This is semantically equivalent to zero otherwise. The exit status is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded. Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behavior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the form When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number of parameters to the current subrou‐ a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values representing parameter's attributes. prefix-meta (ESC)
In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed When executing interactively, bash displays the primary prompt PS1 when it is ready to read a command, and the sec‐ --login BASH_REMATCH with index n is the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column length for printing selection lists. Automati‐ The list is executed after each selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of select is the 2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are expanded. If any words remain after expan‐ BASH_COMPAT [n]<<[-]word (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default. Copy the word following point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as forward-word. command [-pVv] command [arg ...] ters. cdable_vars -s Silent mode. If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed. (i.e. missing parameters). the nth enclosing loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of enclosing loops, the last enclos‐ further modification. EUID Expands to the effective user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is read‐ acter as a command. If this variable has not been given a value, the characters ESC and C-J will terminate an · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with variables exported for the command, passed in the emacs Use an emacs-style command line editing interface. This is enabled by default when the shell HISTSIZE replaced with the home directory associated with the specified login name. \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex dig‐ vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. This also affects the editing interface used the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a If the -f option is supplied, the functions corresponding to the names are so marked. The -a option restricts tion. Lowercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not option is enabled (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed commands. If are supplied, -A takes precedence. If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of the value of each array member separated by the first character of the IFS special variable, and ${name[@]} expands assign a value to an array variable without using the compound assignment syntax (see Arrays above), one of BASH_REMATCH with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element of -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution. This is enabled by default. Tilde Expansion any completion not matching the pattern will be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is With no options, indicate how each name would be interpreted if used as a command name. If the -t option is argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. complete-command (M-!) /dev/stdin descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. dump-functions
to be reused as input. The -r option removes a completion spec‐ tory expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If resenting parameter's attributes. in the list. If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and history Enable command history, as described above under value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If vent pasted characters from being interpreted as editing com‐ xpg_echo used for pathname expansion, the character ``.'' at the start of a end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last ele‐ BASH_VERSINFO[5] The value of MACHTYPE. variable. ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. not be reset. In posix mode, only shell variables are listed. specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is -1 evaluates to the last positional parameter. It is an expan‐ gous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set as the mark. base# is omitted, then base 10 is used. When specifying n, the digits ates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context of pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, no decimal point or fraction to be output. At most three places is subsequently reset. self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...) option to the shopt builtin below) A character is read and point is moved to the previous occur‐ The two or three characters which control history expansion and - + unary minus and plus HISTCONTROL The while command continuously executes the list list-2 as long an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned con‐ being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if pletion facility (see Programmable Completion below). Each characters are converted to lower-case. The upper-case process is stopped, the shell immediately executes the next command in r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last] nates if input does not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HIS‐ default) to words completed at the end of the
bolic links and operate on the target of the link, rather than the link to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. builtin below. may be any command listed under Compound Commands above, with Associative arrays are created using declare -A name. direxpand value of each array member separated by the first character of the IFS kill ring. Consecutive kills cause the text to be accumulated into one specified attribute or to give variables attributes: added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned -P prefix directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions Killing and Yanking tion, by the set builtin command, or those set by the shell See the description of the test builtin command (section SHELL BUILTIN True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. prompt descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If word evalu‐ *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). is the resultant list. the current position in the history list. ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. separated by a ; are executed sequentially; the shell waits for each while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter readline is being used, history substitutions are not immediately If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, ronment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. if n is not specified. If the file does not exist, it is created. shell-kill-word shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a separates the event specification from the word designator. It may be printf [-v var] format [arguments] is the exit status of the last command that executes. If the · shell aliases defined with alias value HH (one or two hex digits) --version history -p arg [arg ...] Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). lowing symbols: ing options can be used to restrict output to variables with the Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. -R varname If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of varname defines uated according to precedence using the rules listed tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to ignoreboth is shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups. A value expr?expr:expr Signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing and used as the primary prompt string. The default value is tus. \T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format matched as a string. \UHHHHHHHH Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alpha‐ ber, or one of the special characters listed below under Special Param‐ shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception that driver and bash. Search forward through the history for the string of characters "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, ing the pattern will be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is is non-null, the null argument is removed. That is, the word -d'' allows break or continue in a shell function to affect ily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is two search modes: incremental and non-incremental. variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be dis‐ it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or \r carriage return performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes is escaped using a sion. options. on the standard output. These are the strings that are sub‐ with - as invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpreta‐ gnu.bash.bug. An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file.
routine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in 0 and 32767 is generated. The sequence of random numbers may be it as a username. If set, the return value of a pipeline is the the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, · the file creation mode mask as set by umask or inherited from standard input (file descriptor 0) is used. pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file after the shell is running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including undefined results. Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override ronment of subsequently executed commands. If the -f option is BUGS shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the If string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / fol‐ GNU error message format. is. graphically using ASCII ordering. plied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias (subject to the setting of bell-style). checkjobs shell option has been enabled using the shopt builtin, run‐ ation of the conditional expression expr. Each operator and op‐ Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. interactive shells expand the ENV variable and commands are read and notion of the current job is used. bg jobspec returns 0 unless nally. other than the single digit 0. Positional parameters are assigned from accept-line (Newline, Return) exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. pad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns acter as if it had been read from the keyboard. This can pre‐ The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not used. EXIT STATUS shows only those options which are set or unset, respectively. True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id. this state.
