info bash -o -
info bash -o -
the function while the function is executing. controlled than the standard shell. It behaves identically to bash with the exception that the following are disallowed or not performed: is omitted, the current value of the soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is given. When more than one resource is specified, the limit name -t Exit after reading and executing one command. Any function specified with -F is invoked first. The function may use any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described below, to generate the matches. %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input. of the trap builtin under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been given the trace attribute (see the description of the declare builtin The command number and the history number are usually different: the history number of a command is its position in the history list, which may include commands restored -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active. line but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted with !. If a compound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero status because In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of backslash escapes is available: entry. No intervening blank is printed between the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, replacing the word. If a numeric argument is Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The first backquote not preceded by a If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as user and system time consumed by its execution are reported when the pipeline terminates. The -p -r Backslash does not act as an escape character. The backslash is considered to be part of the line. In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not be used [n]>&word is the result of quote removal on word, and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter process is running causes that process to be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be READLINE_POINT return file. If a command is hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is used, type Functions may be recursive. The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of function invocations. By default, !n Refer to command line n. to an invocation of the shell. The current set of options may be found in $-. The return status is always true unless an invalid option is encountered. Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. \u the username of the current user beginning of the line, Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. contexts where it is performed, those words are subject to further word splitting and pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, it expands cuting at the time of the trap. of the whitespace characters space, tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS quent references is the number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ -m keymap The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard error: A description of the bug behaviour Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- to be completed. This means that dollar signs in variable names that expand to directories will not be quoted; however, any dollar signs appearing in file‐ it can be made part of an inputrc file.
-k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] [pid | jobspec] ... Delete the character at point. If this function is bound to the same character as the tty EOF character, as C-d commonly is, see above for the effects. which indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes history If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following description, a pattern-list is The special pattern characters have the following meanings: Readline Initialization Directory names. May also be specified as -d. tus of zero. : [arguments] Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non-printing charac‐ The effect is as if the shell command ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell Variables above). · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another command Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output If set, bash quotes all shell metacharacters in filenames and directory names when performing completion. If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as is the result of quote removal on word, and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter treated carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between brackets. If the pattern is stored in a shell variable, quoting the variable expansion Array variable names. File descriptor 1 is duplicated. a decimal number between 2 and 64 representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If base# is omitted, then base 10 is used. When specifying n, the dig‐ Same as -T. The while command continuously executes the list list-2 as long as the last command in the list list-1 returns an exit status of zero. The until command is identi‐ mon prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions. Substitute new for the first occurrence of old in the event line. Any delimiter can be used in place of /. The final delimiter is optional if it is the last char‐ MANDS below). The options appearing in BASHOPTS are those reported as on by shopt. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in pressed. If the -e option is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpretation of these SYNOPSIS compat42 interactive_comments except that traps caught by the shell are reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invocation. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipe‐ -v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack. status. plusdirs For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed. Read- The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, replacing the word. If a numeric argument is · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup ~/.inputrc unalias [-a] [name ...] the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that consists of the following. Unless interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the positional parameters during its shell-backward-word
ion error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status. !n Refer to command line n. Remove matching prefix pattern. The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If call stack using this information. bash-4.1 and later use the current locale's collation sequence and strcoll(3). -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback. name[subscript]=value syntax introduced above. When assigning to an indexed array, if name is subscripted by a nega‐ the following history entry. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs MANDS). ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignoring filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one of the the above example: output by the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side of the = is tested against both the When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, scrolling the input horizontally on a single If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed within ${parameter} expansions enclosed in double cally set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex The string of characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the char‐ be executed until the command completes. When bash is waiting for an asynchronous command via the wait builtin, the Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from with a leading minus sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is followed by digits, executing -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test When bash is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for example, it looks for the variable BASH_ENV in the BASH_XTRACEFD first line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the command arguments, if any. inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argument. = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is supplied as an argument to -d, or the history tern, and 1 otherwise. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each ele‐ -s The maximum stack size \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell in the output. The same word is output as file1 file2 after expansion by bash. If strict compatibility with sh is nal number. Signal names are case insensitive and the SIG prefix is optional. -L file result of the binary test using the first and third arguments as operands. The -a and -o operators are cuted sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of (i.e. missing parameters). mand, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command and its expanded arguments or associ‐ history list, inserting the last word (or the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each line replaced with the home directory associated with the specified login name. Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. Bash attempts completion treating the text as a vari‐ dump-macros If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is used as an offset in characters from the end of
cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to Insert the last argument to the previous command (the last word that is significant. Passing a negative argument to a command that The version number of bash string1 == string2 checkjobs shell function as its first argument, running Insert the character typed. x- Abbreviates x-$ like x*, but omits the last word. strings to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS -x file where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option in the pipeline exit successfully. This option newline had been typed. The default value of comment-begin reference to another variable. That other variable is replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last ele‐ part of a brace expression. To avoid conflicts with parameter expan‐ this variable is assigned a value, the history file is trun‐ HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands are not saved in the && and || control operators, respectively. AND and OR lists are Process Substitution enced by parameter instead of performing the complete indirect expan‐ shift [n] Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. completion handlers to indicate that completion should be retried by eval [arg ...] sion. The exceptions to this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the parameter expansion. If expansion is attempted on an variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a status of LC_CTYPE listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 \V the release of bash, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0) If neither variable is set, vi is used. When editing is com‐ -n Read the history lines not already read from the history *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of !string line of input (or a specified number of characters) is betic characters. Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts
! expr True if expr is false. defined. of a simple command. When in posix mode, name may not be the if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the cur‐ -x keyseq:shell-command \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value that of the last command executed in the function body. If plete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individ‐ popd [-n] [+n] [-n] MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has betic characters. reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is sup‐ chmod(1). If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is HOSTNAME 0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above PATH is not used to search for the resultant filename. cursor position. This variable is available only in shell func‐ using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows behavior. as if in the traditional C locale when performing com‐ arguments. Otherwise, the expression is parsed and eval‐ parts. The first is to determine which line from the history list to the command, with any trailing newlines deleted. Embedded newlines are shell to save only a subset of the commands entered. The cmdhist shell Insert the character typed. is the ASCII value of the following character. waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between of the script. If n is supplied, the return value is its least plied with a name that is not a function. · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another tilde-expand (M-&) lookup. Only builtin commands or commands found in the PATH are an argument of -- as signifying the end of options. Use this variable to ignore shared library files that have the ${!prefix*} denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search Arithmetic Expansion Print all of the settable readline variables and their values to shell-forward-word Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns command ) inherit the ERR trap.
jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +, and the pre‐ \UHHHHHHHH descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split `command` mark-symlinked-directories (Off) quotes are considered one word. History expansions are introduced by above). declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F option to declare or type‐ expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt (see the description of startup files. This variable is read-only. play a screenful of possible completions at a time. Toggle the values of settings controlling optional shell behav‐ File descriptor 1 is duplicated. quote removal. Pathname expansion and word splitting are not per‐ Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is consid‐ graphically using ASCII ordering. appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an variable. This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, field terminators. If IFS is unset, or its value is exactly -S suffix sion is: True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. is disabled by default. plied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indica‐ will be affected by the -e setting, even if -e is set tion resumes after the function or script. of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is sup‐ with backslash escape sequences expanded as with the directory. With no arguments, pushd exchanges the top two When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a more verbose description. If the -V or -v option is supplied, able HISTFILE (default ~/.bash_history). The file named by the value callback. tion associated with each history entry is written to the his‐ $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may be causes printf to output the date-time string resulting been generated by possible-completions. -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first enabled to that file descriptor. The file descriptor is closed ual words in the current command line. The line is split into this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Com‐ from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are readable.
Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the stopped job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the -o optname expanded like a key binding, so the standard set of meta- and described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules or If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec The evaluation is performed according to the rules listed below under True if file exists and is a symbolic link. [n]<&word expansion. Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing this limit) unset variable or function is removed from the environment enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. given the export attribute and marked for export to the Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +, and the pre‐ encountered, read times out (in which case the status is greater other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal significant 8 bits. The return status is non-zero if return is getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more the expansion of the special parameters @ and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh within double quotes. ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, more digits, the file descriptor denoted by n is made to be a copy of tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to each function name supplied as an argument. ${#parameter} characters on an input line before bash exits. If the variable facilities, while available, will not have useful values. hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessar‐ tion) also refers to the current job. characters \, $, and `. The history number, or index in the history list, of the current The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment the final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error to open the corresponding TCP socket. zero.
