info bash -o -
info bash -o -
the resultant list. \a alert (bell) BASH_LOADABLES_PATH Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above). If the last arg evaluates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed. Read- call completes. The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. When bash starts a job asyn‐ Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric argument, save the deleted text on the kill ring. history-preserve-point (Off) lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where problem. BASHPID -A action tors listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is true if the unary test is true. If the first argument is not a valid unary conditional The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented temporarily by prefixing it with parameter assignments, as described above in PARAMETERS. These assign‐ - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the set builtin command, or those set by the shell itself (such as the -i option). Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. from each name. If a variable name is followed by =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export returns an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is individual undo lists across calls to readline. After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a `:'. -O file default array. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: conditional operator In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. Control keys are denoted by C-key, e.g., C-n means Control-N. Similarly, meta keys are denoted by Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed commands. If the -f option is given, the names refer to functions. True if the length of string is non-zero. insert-comment (M-#) compgen [option] [word] If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change fails. -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. classes, and collating sequences within pathname expansion and pattern matching. nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has ${!prefix@} command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero. $((expression)) the standard input (file descriptor 0) is used. expansion is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below). Word splitting is not performed, with the exception of "$@" as explained below under Special Parameters. Pathname unix-word-rubout (C-w) BASH_ENV A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. Command substitution allows the output of a command to replace the command name. There are two forms:
reset the loop state when a shell function is executed (this allows break or continue in a shell function to affect loops in the caller's context). control operator characters, inclusive, using the current locale's collating sequence and character set, is matched. If the first character following the [ is a ! or a ^ return file. If a command is hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is used, type follows: 5. Function tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps. If set to On, readline will inhibit word completion. Completion characters will be inserted into the line as if they had been mapped to self-insert. There is no maximum limit on the size of an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned contiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers ber and source filename of the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line relative to the current line from the history for editing. Any argument is ignored. -w file execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in by default. In the following descriptions, point refers to the current cursor position, and mark refers to a cursor position saved by the set-mark command. The text When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support it, readline echoes a character corresponding to a signal generated from the keyboard. Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G option are generated next. The words generated by the pattern need not match the word being completed. The value of BASH_ENV is subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a filename. PATH is not used !?string[?] argument to -u. BASH_SOURCE options are supplied, each name refers to a variable; if there is no variable by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each unset variable or function is The following variables are used by the shell. In some cases, bash assigns a default value to a variable; these cases are noted below. getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. C-Meta-u: universal-argument filenames for possible completions. moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. digit is closed after being duplicated to n. True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not. forward-search-history (C-s) setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin. The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an ini‐ errtrace "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file version is always available from ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. GLOBIGNORE The special pattern characters have the following meanings: When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-interactive shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes commands from the file /etc/profile, 0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise. The systemwide login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits When set to On, readline will try to enable the application keypad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the arrow keys. A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for subsequent occurrences. subscripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. facilities (see Programmable Completion below). mark-symlinked-directories (Off) If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands.
the shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is loaded into the readline editing buffer, allowing Lists uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase letters to lowercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above). The format of here-documents is: 3. Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION. defined. The -E option indicates that the remaining options and actions should apply to ``empty'' command tings. bash attempts to open the corresponding UDP socket. pushd [-n] [+n] [-n] Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, The second is to select portions of that line for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the history Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow symbolic links and operate on the target of the the compound command or the command containing the function call completes. alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in the alias list; however, unsetting array elements cur‐ tional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them begin with a -. affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. Aliases are expanded when a \\ a backslash The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary ing or command must be passed as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file'. Options, if sup‐ executed. ified). assigned a value the Escape and Control-J characters will terminate an incremental search. Control-G will abort an -s Display only stopped jobs. time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero value, list is executed and the arithmetic expression expr3 is evaluated. option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] completions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches. If the -o default option was supplied to complete the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments are given, or if only fg [jobspec] That is, the word -d'' becomes -d after word splitting and null argument removal. unless the cd to dir fails. With the second form, pushd returns 0 unless the directory stack is empty, a non- \' literal ' GLOBIGNORE inhibit truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value of HISTSIZE after reading any startup Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by backward-word. first line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the command arguments, if any. A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -o option For example, placing served in the result. It is strictly textual. Bash does not apply any syntactic interpretation to the context of · turning off restricted mode with set +r or set +o restricted. ^ The first argument. That is, word 1.
UMNS. -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, with backslash escape sequences expanded as with the the value is the negation of the two-argument test using The rules concerning the definition and use of aliases are somewhat name () compound-command [redirection] result of the expression is the result of the binary test select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing -x Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the history list. pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ invocation, the shell becomes restricted. A restricted shell is used no arguments are supplied. -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems each redirection operator except >&- and <&-, the shell will allocate a List the possible completions of the text before point. delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event tory. Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option invoked. In addition, bash interprets the following options when it is has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the PS2 The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and used as the expanded value of parameter is tested against pattern, and, command substitutions, and commands executed in a sub‐ characters. the number of history entries is not limited. By default, the \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the rection operator >| instead of >. A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell possible-command-completions (C-x !) hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] not take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell not execute the file specified as an argument to the expansion character, but the history expansion character is also read, before the shell breaks it into words. It takes place in two exit [n] xtrace Same as -x. Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of string is translated and replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. separated by a ; are executed sequentially; the shell waits for each Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override onecmd Same as -t.
nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the Signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or expression1 || expression2 The shell function function is executed in the current and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a /, ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. expand-tilde (Off) COMP_WORDS Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The lowing meanings: tion, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. unsetting it will result in the standard error being closed. complete (TAB) tokenization (see HISTORY EXPANSION below). The first character Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard An associative array variable whose members correspond to the builtin (in which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of in the order they are displayed by the dirs builtin. Assigning The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the played in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initial‐ with respect to locale-specific string comparison when -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells The command number and the history number are usually different: the one of the displayed words, then the value of name is set to indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multi‐ No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, other‐ \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. OLDPWD The previous working directory as set by the cd command. self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...) It will not do this if invoked as sh. The --norc option may be used to Provides control over the resources available to the shell and
able until after that function is executed. To be safe, always put mand completes. When bash is waiting for an asynchronous command via 0 (zero) cated, if necessary, to contain no more than that number of bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell instead of ringing the bell. if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not expand · options enabled by shopt the form MMmSS.FFs. The value of p determines whether or not subscript is @ or *, the word expands to all members of name. These History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is this state. shell-forward-word process list is run asynchronously, and its input or output appears as source filename [arguments] tion, shell functions, and subshells invoked with 0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above ~/.bash_profile the foreground, or failure if run when job control is disabled is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. the last command beginning with that string) or as a number (an Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ ated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the file‐ If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that signal Signal names. Readline Variables ${parameter%word} forward-word (M-f) not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, above). This is on by default. of -1 references the last element. between the start of the current line and the point. This is a is being used, and the histreedit shell option is enabled, a failed OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. default completion function would load completions dynamically: # Quote the current or previous word \e an ASCII escape character (033) Only brace expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can change each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters ${!name[@]}
removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to easy re-editing of multi-line commands. or arithmetic expansion. The parameter name or symbol to be expanded message to be printed when mail arrives in a particular file may !! Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for `!-1'. ters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by variables exported for the command, passed in the environment fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit huponexit PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) universal-argument dent. a trailing portion of the expanded value of parameter, then the colored-completion-prefix (Off) dollar signs appearing in filenames will not be quoted, arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) Read key bindings from filename. option is enabled by default. is made local to the function in which local is invoked: shell expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell assignment -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a \n new line ARITHMETIC EVALUATION that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname. lowed by an optional postscript. The preamble is prefixed to each · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as could be interpreted as part of the name. ing input, so that several metacharacter-separated words surrounded by ates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context of sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is fol‐ Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into completion even if the ignored words are the only possi‐ COMP_TYPE read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname comple‐ Substitute new for the first occurrence of old in the event file1 -ot file2 slashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HIS‐ The number of screen columns used to display possible matches LC_CTYPE p Print the new command but do not execute it. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a bell. If set to none, readline never rings the bell. If set to
