info bash -o -
info bash -o -
match. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. A leading ! negates the pattern; in this case any completion not matching the pattern will Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file (the inputrc file). The name of this file is taken from the value of the INPUTRC variable. If that An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to the current position in the his‐ enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] than that number of lines by removing the oldest entries. The history file is also truncated to this size after writing it when a shell exits. If the value is 0, bg [jobspec ...] Read in the contents of the inputrc file, and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found there. Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point over that word as well. If point is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on IGNOREEOF skip-completed-text (Off) -W wordlist Readline Notation BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument to the cd command. This option is only used by interactive completion-display-width (-1) \e -p prompt Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of If BASH_COMPAT is unset or set to the empty string, the compatibility level is set to the default for the current version. If BASH_COMPAT is set to a value that is Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing newline, before attempting to read any input. The prompt is displayed only if input is coming from a is the first character of the value of the IFS variable. If IFS is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is null, the parameters are joined without default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches. must be quoted to disable normal history expansion. Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. PS4 The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and the value is printed before each command bash displays during an execution trace. The first character of PS4 verbose Same as -v. expr1 , expr2 -c If the -c option is present, then commands are read from the first non-option argument command_string. If there are arguments after the command_string, the first || & && ; ;; ;& ;;& ( ) | |& <newline> Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point. privileged When available, process substitution is performed simultaneously with parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. There may be only one active coprocess at a time. and each completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not occur in a pattern. A back‐ second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being completed on the current command line. No filtering of PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and before the command is executed. are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is saved in the variable REPLY. The &>word
-S suffix When a compspec indicates that directory name completion is desired, the programmable completion functions force readline to append a slash to completed names which are · options enabled by shopt of the while and until commands is the exit status of the last command executed in list-2, or zero if none was executed. True if file exists and is a character special file. show-all-if-unmodified (Off) FIGNORE has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the remaining options should apply to ``empty'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless is followed by =value, the value of the variable is set to value. When using -a or -A and the compound assignment syntax to create array variables, additional CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for destination directories specified by the cd command. syntax. The value of a variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer attribute using declare BASH_VERSINFO The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, if that file exists. After reading that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command specified with the -F and -C options is invoked. When the command or function is invoked, the globstar HISTSIZE ~/.bash_profile process is running causes that process to be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be Perform tilde expansion on the current word. ENV variable and commands are read and executed from the file whose name is the expanded value. No other startup files are read. members of the resultant list which match the word being completed. If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output. The return value is true if the directory was success‐ The shell allows control over which commands are saved on the history list. The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE variables may be set to cause the shell to save only a subset of Remove any current binding for keyseq. \r carriage return the readline line buffer and the READLINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes the value of READ‐ the existing list. If HOSTFILE is set, but has no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname forward-backward-delete-char Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is strictly textual. Bash does user User names. May also be specified as -u. -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset. Otherwise, the positional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files. If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in file‐ When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If it does, other redirection operators apply (see Duplicating File Descriptors below) for compatibility + - addition, subtraction In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. Control keys are denoted by C-key, e.g., C-n means Control-N. Similarly, meta keys are denoted by mand (see SHELL GRAMMAR below) or the third word of a case or for command: True if file exists and has been modified since it was last read. Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and if the leading character is a single the function is the compound command compound-command (see Compound Commands above). That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but may be any com‐ glob-complete-word (M-g) If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current com‐ alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a.
A short script or `recipe' which exercises the bug space in value causes the next word to be checked for alias substitution when the alias is expanded. For each If set, command substitution inherits the value of the errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the name, except those using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed on the variable referenced a shell function to affect loops in the caller's context). dump-variables ter starting at the character specified by offset and extending to the end of the value. length and offset failglob functrace If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last next command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially one, so executing this function the first right. & Repeat the previous substitution. being completed. A literal & may be escaped with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for The command number and the history number are usually different: the history number of a command is its position in SHLVL Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. forward-backward-delete-char The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits sible completions. The default bash completions are not attempted, and the readline default of filename completion compat32 If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is jobs -x command [ args ... ] PARAMETERS ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interac‐ the function become the positional parameters during its execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect the rules listed above. An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit status values from the processes in the most- glob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). expand-tilde (Off) When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash reads and executes commands from braceexpand -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each input line, rather than newline. enabled, a failed history substitution will be reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The -p An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current contents of the directory stack. Directories -p, which is in units of 512-byte blocks; -P, -T, -b, -k, -n, and -u, which are unscaled values; and, when in If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is fix, you are encouraged to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may be mailed to bug- -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that only the -u Disable (unset) each optname. mines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating sequences within pathname expan‐ ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS by command search using PATH. Files whose full pathnames match one of these patterns are not considered exe‐
status. set to the real user id. If the -p option is supplied at invocation, inputrc file. Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list -r The maximum real-time scheduling priority The shell sets this option if it is started in LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column argument. This option is enabled by default. is set, time stamps are written to the history file, marked with the long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS white‐ BASH_LOADABLES_PATH entries from the list. The current directory is always the The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, The general format for appending output is: words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when read‐ If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the completions alphabetically. tab-insert (C-v TAB) script]}. If subscript is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the expansion is the number of ele‐ error, each preceded by a number. If the in word is omitted, Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of specified, or the directory change to the specified new current MANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, for a description of alias expansion. sequently reset. The exit status is true unless a name is read‐ not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The com‐ SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. -p Perform history substitution on the following args and complete-command (M-!) vious job with a -. A single % (with no accompanying job specifica‐ -d Display a short description of each pattern REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when current version. The valid compatibility levels correspond to alphabetic characters. If parameter is @ or *, the substitution unix-filename-rubout monitor Same as -m. read by the mapfile builtin when no variable name is supplied. the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input the unalias command. when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). allows break or continue in a shell function to affect to check a shell script for syntax errors. This is ? Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed fore‐ The shell does not exit if the command that fails is -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list
~/.bash_profile return an unsuccessful status. On systems that support it, the appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If LC_COLLATE A login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a -, or or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is loaded enable-keypad (Off) OLDPWD The previous working directory as set by the cd command. result of the expansion is the expanded value of parameter with BUILTIN COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell filenames ``.'' and ``..'' are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. job spec is given, all processes in that job's pipeline are variables may also be referenced by name without using the parameter are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the shell [1] 25647 sary. When characters are supplied, the expression expands to each placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. display the result on the standard output. Does not argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If is enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number clearing the screen. ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interac‐ directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an inter‐ dard. to open the corresponding TCP socket. the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an completions. remaining words and their intervening delimiters are assigned to executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that con‐ ence. PLY array variable. - Signal the end of options, cause all remaining args to · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invoca‐ History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and specified as -b. substituted is the number of positional parameters. If parame‐ tory expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See rather than - causes these options to be turned off. The specified by redirections to the command
\! the history number of this command yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position Refresh the current line. Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If no names are ior intended for use by debuggers is enabled: -A action is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. not executed. or until keyword, part of the test following the if or the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not supplied, no startup command to exit with a non-zero status. If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no charac‐ set to audible, readline attempts to ring the terminal's bell. the set builtin command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to \d delete Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified mum index of parameter, so negative indices count back from the If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be --posix comment-begin (``#'') valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off read‐ asked whether or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execu‐ a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is a maximum value (cur‐ n lists only the last n lines. If the shell variable HISTTIME‐ echo [-neE] [arg ...] causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. The -d ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, bash reads these diagnostic message is printed. If getopts is silent, then a alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pat‐ described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options are disabled (unset) sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline other history lines. ment is supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new limit. performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes is escaped using a expanded like a key binding, so the standard set of meta- and value. The null string is a valid value. The redirection operator first word is assigned to the first name, the second word to the These are history lines entered since the beginning of posix Change the behavior of bash where the default the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a vari‐
EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell to be checked for alias substitution when the alias is expanded. destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the char‐ bash. If strict compatibility with sh is desired, start bash with the used, $0 is prefixed to the list. the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automati‐ The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash ${parameter:?word} nothing (i.e., they are removed). -o option-name ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command. named command_not_found_handle. If that function exists, it is invoked keyword Shell reserved words. May also be specified as compat42 tions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed. upcoming versions of bash. mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test parameters may not be assigned to in this way. the three-argument expression composed of the remaining handled gracefully when process suspension is attempted. When a readline. The text of the test extends to the end of the line; file File names. May also be specified as -f. after expansion and to split lines into words with the read A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are builtin with the exception of -p and -r, and write the matches /dev/stderr found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed. If point, moving point forward as well. If point is at the end of exiting if any jobs are stopped. supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; if not, is substituted. line>''. Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. or add to the variable's previous value. This includes arguments to The redirection operator -c file how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a · the current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or
