info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in upcoming versions of bash. not apply any syntactic interpretation to the context of the expansion or the text between the braces. -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read. and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. transpose-chars (C-t) characters between offset and that result. Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by at least one space to avoid being confused with the :- complete-hostname (M-@) 0 Expands to the name of the shell or shell script. This is set at shell initialization. If bash is invoked with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that Array variable names. \r carriage return nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has If set, bash replaces directory names with the results of word expansion when performing filename completion. This changes the contents of the readline Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional parameters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by default. If offset is 0, and the positional supplied, the return value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second form is used, The personal initialization file, executed for login shells There may be only one active coprocess at a time. Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is strictly textual. Bash does Compound Commands the history matching the string typed so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as needed to find the desired history entry. The characters present noexec Same as -n. enable-bracketed-paste (Off) overwrite-mode temporarily replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). -v Print shell input lines as they are read. being assigned to the variable. getopts is silent, then a colon (:) is placed in name and OPTARG is set to the option character found. OSTYPE Automatically set to a string that describes the operating system on which bash is executing. The default is system-dependent. \T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling through the list. behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full pathnames in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIGNORE. Use this variable to ignore shared library files -l List process IDs in addition to the normal information. \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion following the final slash) no_empty_cmd_completion The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below). BASH_ARGV +(pattern-list) name. If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home directory of the user executing begin with a -. take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see HISTORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion character, usually !, must be quoted to prevent history 0 arguments ^ The first argument. That is, word 1. *(pattern-list)
sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. is the status of the last command exited within the script (0 if no commands are executed), and false if filename is not found or cannot be read. kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] [pid | jobspec] ... Appending Redirected Output TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's use. The version number of bash mand substitution, or parameter expansion. -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. The last command in the history list is removed before the args are added. [n]<&word SHELL The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment variable. If it is not set when the shell starts, bash assigns to it the full pathname of the current supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale. Note that both x and y must be of the same This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence PIPESTATUS ( expr ) command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). Refer to $((expression)) -t Exit after reading and executing one command. If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. \' single quote The return value of a simple command is its exit status, or 128+n if the command is terminated by signal n. control operator for the portion following the final slash. If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined with the -D option to complete is used as the default. -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG Move to the first line in the history. nized as primaries. Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter cesses run in a separate process group. When a background job completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status. Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. Same as -H. patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to Assign Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is assigned to parameter. The value of parameter is then substituted. Positional line is saved. Any value not in the above list is ignored. If HISTCONTROL is unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the shell parser are saved -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used to check a shell script for syntax errors. This is ignored by interactive shells. read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read ment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file currently being checked. interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. Unbind all keys bound to the named function. comment-begin (``#'') HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL. The number of commands to remember in the command history (see HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands are not saved in the history list. Numeric values less print-last-kbd-macro () the history matching the string typed so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as needed to find the desired history entry. The characters present
Shell Variables The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words The effect is as if the shell command ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell Variables popd command removes entries from the list. The current directory is always the first directory in the stack. which uses the readline library starts up, the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables are -f file arguments. is specified, or the directory change fails. The return status is the exit status of list. -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated binding Readline key binding names. name}. In this case, for each redirection operator except >&- and <&-, the shell will allocate a file descriptor attribute modifications to the variable whose name was passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the with a statement of the form mands (see COMMAND EXECUTION below). A zero-length (null) directory name in the value of PATH indicates the set -x is enabled to that file descriptor. The file descriptor is closed when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within path‐ fg [jobspec] IFS has a value other than the default, then sequences of the whitespace characters space, tab, and newline are (see Compound Commands above). That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but may be any initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus any beginning with ${parameter[offset]}. A negative offset is taken relative to one greater than the maximum This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the --noediting option is command and the original command's arguments as its arguments, and the function's exit status becomes the exit status LC_COLLATE Insert the character typed. ing or command must be passed as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file'. Options, if sup‐ variable that is null or unset evaluates to 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. To facilitate the implementation of the user interface to job control, the operating system maintains the notion of a HISTCMD -m Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems invoke $VISUAL, $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. HISTIGNORE default. Any additional arguments following dir are ignored. The variable CDPATH defines the search path for HOME The home directory of the current user; the default argument for the cd builtin command. The value of this variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see EXPANSION below). If the ified). scripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the either n or the exit status of the last command executed within the script as the exit status of the script.
rections take effect in the current shell, and the return status option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the options to be recognized. of a file to read and execute. Bash behaves as if the following com‐ ment. If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or Word Splitting This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a `:'. Remove any current binding for keyseq. mark-directories). instead of ringing the bell. ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). if they are filenames (quoting filenames is the ified as -v. caller builtin displays the current call stack using this infor‐ toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash -p file lines out of range. If the -e option is supplied, the return If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be -1 evaluates to the last positional parameter. It is an expan‐ When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell tion, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored Show version information for this instance of bash on the stan‐ functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple iden‐ number is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maxi‐ nounset Same as -u. If a compound command or shell function executes in a no_empty_cmd_completion expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is values they had prior to the function's execution. command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of and unit are printed before the value. Other options are inter‐ special characters that are decoded as follows: -n Give each name the nameref attribute, making it a name
username. specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not rec‐ File descriptor 0 is duplicated. resenting parameter's attributes. Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the bashbug ification for each name, or, if no names are supplied, all com‐ script]=string. Indexed array assignments do not require anything but using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with builtin. value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, instead of the shell builtin version, run ``enable -n test''. Read key bindings from filename. -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the ${parameter^^pattern} is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion ASCII characters will collate together. stamps from other history lines. After saving the history, the history When a compspec indicates that directory name completion is desired, filenames Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the read‐ Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands completions alphabetically. EUID Expands to the effective user ID of the current user, initial‐ Incremented by one within each subshell or subshell environment chown root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}} is supplied, the functions corresponding to the names are so dard output and exit successfully. backward-kill-word (M-Rubout) When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array vari‐ If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. variable cause words to be ignored when performing word read -e. ${parameter:-word} completion even if the ignored words are the only possi‐ shell's parent in the environment · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another p Print the new command but do not execute it. command is executed. This command is bound to M-# in emacs mode When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell
the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of func‐ Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of failed command is part of the command list immediately following ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, s/old/new/ execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or shows only those options which are set or unset, respectively. attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of specified by redirections to the command -u Disable (unset) each optname. sequences: a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'. Redirecting Input Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric name=(value1 ... valuen), where each value is of the form [sub‐ pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the This determines when the user is queried about viewing the num‐ ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, found, the corrected filename is printed, and the com‐ performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to Wait for each specified child process and return its termination and a key sequence to which it should be bound. The name may be speci‐ value of editing-mode also affects the default keymap. it evaluates to zero. Each time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero process list is run asynchronously, and its input or output appears as writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form completion-prefix-display-length (0) In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the inter‐ For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. ization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the standard personal initial‐ an error occurs. omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline. bolic links and operate on the target of the link, rather than the link BASH_ARGC command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and expansion. value HH (one or two hex digits) results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file exits, rather than overwriting the file. unless a syntax error occurs, in which case it exits with a non-zero tory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is -b The maximum socket buffer size shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argu‐
A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks MAILCHECK mand. This option is only used by interactive shells. shell script is executed. width when printing selection lists. Automatically set if the for the given resource. A hard limit cannot be increased by a whose name is the same as a shell builtin, retaining the func‐ the shell is invoked as sh. OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an >word 2>&1 occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be Each variable assignment is checked for unquoted tilde-prefixes immedi‐ dirnames matches (==) or does not match (!=) the pattern, and 1 otherwise. Any True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see chown root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}} will be affected by the -e setting, even if -e is set If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and (see Modifiers below). trol sequence into the mode string. an empty environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name the new file to the existing list. If HOSTFILE is set, but has function and its caller. ~/.bash_profile Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select may include commands restored from the history file (see HISTORY set to value. When using -a or -A and the compound assignment remember the full pathnames of executable files (see hash under SHELL Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in time reserved word should be displayed. The % character intro‐ Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The \t horizontal tab a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from the background into the followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it If bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed.
