info bash -o -
info bash -o -
ment. If the command is followed by digits, executing universal-argument again ends the numeric argument, but is otherwise ignored. As a special case, if this com‐ tialized. Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes (FIFOs) or the /dev/fd method of naming open files. The set of characters that the readline library treats as word separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special proper‐ \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format attributes do not take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, each variable name expands to a separate word. option indicates that the remaining options should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions. LC_ALL This variable overrides the value of LANG and any other LC_ variable specifying a locale category. Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The following words are recognized as reserved when unquoted and either the first word of a simple com‐ First, the arithmetic expression expr1 is evaluated according to the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. The arithmetic expression expr2 is then bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command expansion, and quote removal (see EXPANSION below). If the variable has its integer attribute set, then value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) x* Abbreviates x-$. Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to right hand side (that is, to insert the text ``> output'' into the line). If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the results. through the history (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been specified. gnu_errfmt An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in cause the text to be accumulated into one unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. -m keymap Wait for each specified child process and return its termination status. Each n may be a process ID or a job specification; if a job spec is given, all processes in If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed commands. If the -f option is given, the names refer to functions. When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. Here Strings (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant ments are ignored. if not, the value of HISTFILE is used. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: shell with history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled (see the description of 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each positional parameter expands to a separate word. In The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option is given, the commands are listed on change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output. The return value is true if the directory was success‐ message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the jobs and their statuses. The jobs command may then be used to inspect their status. If a second attempt to must match the complete line (no implicit `*' is appended). Each pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCONTROL are applied. In addi‐ The backslash character (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next character read and for line continuation. Options, if supplied, have the follow‐ \n newline extdebug number) and the characters between the single quotes are considered quoted. This is the behavior of posix mode through version 4.1. The default bash behav‐ \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion following the final slash) Insert the character typed.
The user file-creation mask is set to mode. If mode begins with a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask --rcfile file read [-ers] [-a aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] Array variable names. Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for writing on file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor supplied. histchars times Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and for processes run from the shell. The return status is 0. new builtin from a shared object. an optname is not a valid shell option. Maildir-format directory. horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) SHELLOPTS complete-variable (M-$) A description of the bug behaviour -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each input line, rather than newline. Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by backward-word. (see REDIRECTION below). If |& is used, command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is connected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is The following symbolic character names are recognized: RUBOUT, DEL, ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC, SPACE, and TAB. the readline line buffer and the READLINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes the value of READ‐ deferred until a second exit is attempted without an intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are indicate incorrect usage, generally invalid options or missing arguments. is set to ?. if that file exists. After reading that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first list. COMP_WORDBREAKS dle. If that function exists, it is invoked with the original command and the original command's arguments as its arguments, and the function's exit status becomes the prefix-meta (ESC) well. When invoked as an interactive login shell, or a non-interactive shell with the --login option, it first attempts to read and execute commands from /etc/profile and unix-filename-rubout one terminates due to an interrupt. delete-char (C-d) Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above). If the last arg evaluates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. of the whitespace characters space, tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS 4 arguments unix-word-rubout (C-w) word, function, builtin, or file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, then nothing is COMP_TYPE secure shell daemon sshd. If bash determines it is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are
True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id. Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file (the inputrc file). The name of this file is it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z takes effect immediately, and has the additional side \c suppress further output initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus any True if file exists. correction is found, the corrected filename is printed, and the command proceeds. This option is only The expression is evaluated according to the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If the value \H the hostname FUNCNAME Referencing an array variable without a subscript is equivalent to referencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard error: PROMPTING used in warning and error messages. variable emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ string1 = string2 character-search-backward (M-C-]) an expression, shell variables may also be referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. A shell shell. BASH_VERSINFO[2] The patch level. is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. lastpipe HISTORY Readline Initialization If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is the When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be executed, it is invoked in a separate execution word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as a token. history-preserve-point (Off) destroy an array variable and +r will not remove the readonly attribute. When used in a function, declare and lines appended to the history file since the beginning of the current bash session. The number of commands to remember in the command history (see HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands closing braces specially when they appear as part of a word, and preserves them in the output. Bash removes braces below). -r keyseq or command (including aliases and functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename completion the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the taining delimiter. This allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural fashion. *(pattern-list) only. 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions above. braceexpand That is, the word -d'' becomes -d after word splitting and null argument removal. scripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the above for a description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by default. Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (portable object) file format. able.
no decimal point or fraction to be output. At most three places specific settings. Each program using the readline is supplied or the -o physical option to the set builtin command assignments, and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was do-uppercase-version (M-a, M-b, M-x, ...) vi-style line editing interface is also available. Line editing can be If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semicolons where case; the , operator converts matching uppercase letters to low‐ BASH_LOADABLES_PATH return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to the index of If set, bash checks the window size after each command the control operators | or |&. The format for a pipeline is: occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the checkhash -f Use function names only. or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is emacs(1), vi(1) indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi parameters are not changed. The return status is greater than Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, any of the personal initialization files ~/.bash_profile, BASH_ARGV After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the not execute the file specified as an argument to the A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value. The null string is unchanged. pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument sion. PLY array variable. fication. file whose name is the expansion of word. shell environment. Otherwise, the variables are added to the environ‐ them. First and last may be specified as a string (to locate unalias [-a] [name ...] RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control- instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]] errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell to open the corresponding TCP socket.
$endif command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by eter is then substituted. Positional parameters and special descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage, generally shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a shell's parent in the environment one is created. The return status is false if any sigspec is The index of the current cursor position relative to the begin‐ tion (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when disallowed or not performed: names and directory names when performing completion. RETURN traps (see the description of the trap builtin under SHELL The list of expansions that would have been generated by -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Condi‐ a cursor position saved by the set-mark command. The text between the shell to save only a subset of the commands entered. The cmdhist shell with -P, and the current working directory cannot be success‐ expression are saved in the array variable BASH_REMATCH. The element The expression is true if and only if the argument is not tive shells. possible-username-completions (C-x ~) user mail files that it uses is system dependent (e.g., those commands. If ename is not given, the value of the FCEDIT the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments are Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way digit, or when parameter is followed by a character which is not ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to shopt below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the Directory names. May also be specified as -d. If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of varname defines pat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C command] -n nchars name. rupt; previous versions continue with the next command Unbind all keys bound to the named function. Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is Lowercase the current (or following) word. With a negative ately following a : or the first =. In these cases, tilde expansion is of an inputrc file. it as a shell variable.
--posix -d The maximum size of a process's data segment script executed with . or source) is at the top of the stack. terminals, the meta key is used to send eight-bit characters. directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory, magic-space not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are Delete all spaces and tabs around point. RESTRICTED SHELL A parameter is an entity that stores values. It can be a name, a num‐ INPUTRC turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding then its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string pound-command is executed whenever name is specified as the name this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history words. Various modifiers are available to manipulate the selected search string becomes the current line. returned. If the -p option is used, type either returns the list of matched filenames. A sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is blank A space or tab. parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not invalid; otherwise trap returns true. Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (por‐ exists but does not have a numeric value, or has no value, the -x The maximum number of file locks (Arrays). replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed is given, the commands are listed on standard output. Other‐ the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME ignored by interactive shells. In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs this case, the shell displays the total user and system time consumed times Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and \M- meta prefix Automatically set to a string that uniquely describes the type With no options, display the command history list with line num‐ pletions. the unalias command. be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC, SPACE, and TAB. \r carriage return
sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT (the inputrc file). The name of this file is taken from the value of If set to On, readline uses an internal more-like pager to dis‐ the args are added. MAILCHECK additional input. If this variable is set to a value less than shell with those options or allow them to be specified. is unbound by default. vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified. If the file under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). the history list. Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce True if file exists and is a character special file. The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, allows break or continue in a shell function to affect acters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option Characters removed are replaced with an ellipsis. ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. not executed. means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a job‐ its value is interpreted as a filename containing commands to tab-insert (C-v TAB) if the user so specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). or POSIX. This implies the -n option; no commands will be allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for that do not require bash to be re-initialized. The first form selects a range of commands from first to last history list prior to parameter and variable expansion (see EXPANSION to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The \e delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been entries. execution to continue with the list associated with the next set ARGUMENTS pletions. [n]<&digit- default. words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal a terminal control sequence into the mode string.
