info bash -o -
info bash -o -
problem. \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated The first character of delim is used to terminate the input line, rather than newline. file1 -ef file2 typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro. bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. noclobber shell with history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled (see the description of characters is also treated as a delimiter. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. evaluated repeatedly until it evaluates to zero. Each time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero value, list is executed and the arithmetic expression expr3 is evaluated. completion-ignore-case (Off) non-negative integers. process is running causes that process to be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be filterpat is removed. Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. Readline Conditional Constructs -f Disable pathname expansion. -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. tern begins with #, it must match at the beginning of the expanded value of parameter. If pattern begins with %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of Redirecting Input BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). \f form feed AND and OR lists are sequences of one or more pipelines separated by the && and || control operators, respectively. AND and OR lists are executed with left associativity. If command is specified, it replaces the shell. No new process is created. The arguments become the arguments to command. If the -l option is supplied, the shell -n string If any arguments are supplied when -l is given, the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments are listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way that will enable it to insert each paste into the editing buffer as a single string of characters, characters encountered in the input are not treated specially and do not cause read to return until nchars characters are read. The result is not split on nameref attribute, the list of words can be a list of shell variables, and a name reference will be established for each word in the list, in turn, when the loop is exe‐ shift [n] The hardware and operating system ${parameter:offset} in the source file (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell function). Use LINENO to \C- control prefix READLINE_LINE pipeline are members of the same job. Bash uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control. If set, range expressions used in pattern matching bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave as if in the traditional C locale when performing assignment Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to pre‐ Brace expansion introduces a slight incompatibility with historical versions of sh. sh does not treat opening or closing braces specially when they appear as part of a HISTORY EXPANSION
ior remains as in previous versions. Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, numbers take the form [base#]n, where the optional base is may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. The individual per-interactive-shell startup file Without options, displays the list of currently remembered directories. The default display is on a single line with directory names separated by spaces. Directo‐ -d delim -p file -N file posix mode is enabled. braces denote optional portions. PS3 The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by the terminal's function keys. The word on bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command enabled Names of enabled shell builtins. Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below). The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + rather than - causes these options to be turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, -r Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to pre‐ [n]<<<word The expression is false. In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the redirection refers to the standard When set to On, readline will try to enable any meta modifier key the terminal claims to support when it is called. On many terminals, the meta key is used to send explicitly, unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the ``.'' character using the -e option to the read builtin. By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A vi-style line editing interface is also available. Line enable-keypad (Off) option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the · adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options to the enable builtin command BASH_VERSINFO[3] The build version. LC_CTYPE forward-search-history (C-s) checkwinsize interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. Appending Standard Output and Standard Error Resume each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. bg } source filename [arguments] completion-display-width (-1) Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the characters in the macro appear as if typed at the keyboard. not inherited in such cases.
-x After expanding each simple command, for command, case command, select command, or arithmetic for com‐ tion is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. ters defining a new search string, any remembered search string is used. tions are not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE ber of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether the parentheses are not supplied, the braces are required. compound-command is executed whenever name is the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes com‐ Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for writing on file incremental search. possible-completions (M-?) moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not speci‐ There may be only one active coprocess at a time. getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the default) to words completed at the end of the line. Without options, the name and value of each shell variable are displayed in a format that can be reused as term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences \cx a control-x character attempted. When a process is stopped, the shell immediately executes the next command in the sequence. It suffices expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the case modifi‐ LINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a stopped job's name; this provides functionality analogous to \! the history number of this command bind [-m keymap] -f filename current locale. If the current locale is C or POSIX, the dollar sign is ignored. If the string is translated and those instead. to $#-n+1 are unset. n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to $#. If n is 0, no parameters are cuted sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of a `~-', the value of the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde \E an escape character INPUTRC However, nameref variables can reference array variables and subscripted array variables. Namerefs can be unset in a form that may be reused as input. The return status is 0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no printf [-v var] format [arguments] command terminates if input does not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an source. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function If set at shell invocation, arrange to execute the debugger profile before the shell starts, identical locale's collating sequence and character set, is matched. If the first character following the [ is a If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several extended pattern matching operators are rec‐ Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or end of the line (like delete-char). If at call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e) hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] treated specially and do not cause read to return until nchars characters are read. The result is not This pattern is used to generate a list of matching filenames for possible completions. time makes the argument count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, and so on.
-k. new argument. M-- starts a negative argument. list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else named by pid or jobspec. sigspec is either a case-insensitive Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. Elements added to this array appear in the alias list; however, statement properties. · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set in a double-quoted parameter expansion as a special into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modi‐ to each resulting string, expanding left to right. remember. Bash will not allow this value to be decreased below or negative integers. This is the library that handles reading input when using an interac‐ dard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, vi-command, a subshell). returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, sigspec is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a expands to a separate word. That is, "$@" is equivalent to "$1" Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file \\ backslash The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by the -p option is not also used. The table of hashed commands is complete-command (M-!) take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 character-search-backward (M-C-]) primary prompt. JOB CONTROL · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the . The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HIS‐ routine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in above. This option is enabled by default. $(command) history-expand-line (M-^) Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables. Refresh the current line. instead be preceded by a word of the form {varname}. In this case, for function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly tents of the directory stack. Directories appear in the stack ferent colors to indicate their file type. The color defini‐
These are history lines entered since the beginning of forward-char (C-f) File descriptor 0 is duplicated. the exit status is 0 if command was found, and 1 if not. If globasciiranges it the full pathname of the current user's login shell. had been terminated with the & control operator, with a two-way pipe dump-variables formed. then nothing is printed, and an exit status of false is If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as effect, asynchronous commands ignore SIGINT and SIGQUIT in addition to noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the Control-G will abort an incremental search and restore the original If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when string1 < string2 to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. mand associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execu‐ of "$@" and "${name[@]}" as explained above (see PARAMETERS). even if ``type -t name'' would not return file. If a command is When the shell is in posix mode, time may be followed by a newline. In Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behav‐ time formatting. argument is ignored. The general format for appending output is: delimiter The number of commands to remember in the command history (see described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are spec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return True if file exists. be quoted to prevent history expansion. slashes, bash searches each element of the PATH for a directory con‐ BASH_XTRACEFD or assigning it the empty string causes the trace bolic form; the default output is an octal number. If the -p ground in the current shell environment. mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). tory lines may be modified and retain individual undo lists exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not supplied by the user in the filename to be completed. of a simple command. When in posix mode, name may not be the for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). complete-username (M-~) effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames option processing, then commands are read from the standard incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the
(see RESTRICTED SHELL below). erencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any reference to a variable -q function is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. The horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) tion invocations. By default, no limit is imposed on the number of current version. If BASH_COMPAT is set to a value that is not ronment. If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a commands associated with each sigspec are displayed. If no routine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce then until while { } time [[ ]] line. -P List current readline function names and bindings. emacs(1), vi(1) invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history do not allow this value to be set) the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as unset. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COL‐ %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific ${parameter:-word} replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the dependent. 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between behavior of historical versions of sh as closely as possible, while mands without redirections are treated as candidates for resump‐ environment. This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each the event line. An a may be used as a synonym for g. alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. tion. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipeline are also After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search the programmable completion functions force readline to append a slash
filenames ``.'' and ``..'' are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname comple‐ transpose-chars (C-t) no_empty_cmd_completion shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception that has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the completion specifications are printed in a way that allows them tory. uated according to precedence using the rules listed service Service names. May also be specified as -s. trap. pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double generated, directory name completion is in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first one that places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing [-+]O [shopt_option] set by the administrator who installs bash. A common value is each key expands to a separate word. setting of the mark-symlinked-directories readline variable. If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the command name. Command completion attempts to match the text line displays the next entry from the history matching the string typed ment, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each -c Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the zero. -v varname the longest match of pattern against its value is replaced with Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non- pad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit sta‐ the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted. If the char‐ pletions as part of programmable completion. when performing completion. The value is ignored if it is less Perform history and alias expansion on the current line. or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the less than zero, the history file is not truncated. When the history ters. optstring contains the option characters to be recog‐ FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. with name arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, histchars A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). eter is then substituted. Positional parameters and special enabled Names of enabled shell builtins.
