info bash -o -
info bash -o -
possible-variable-completions (C-x $) · shell functions defined during execution or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment the -T option is enabled, source inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to source, and source unsets input-meta (Off) tactically incorrect, the conditional expression's return value is 2. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cursor is deleted. -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd -0'' removes the last directory, ``popd -1'' -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues -r The maximum real-time scheduling priority complete (TAB) --debugger code as the list of possible completions. resource or one of the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively. If limit The command currently being executed or about to be executed, unless the shell is executing a command as the result of a trap, in which case it is the command exe‐ -P If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when executing commands such as cd that change the current working directory. It uses the physical direc‐ -r Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name reference. it is subsequently reset. \E an escape character dabbrev-expand After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters appears, then the word is regarded Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. to the function in which local is invoked: shell options changed using the set builtin inside the function are restored to their original values when the function Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules based on the number of arguments. If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it. LC_CTYPE !! Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for `!-1'. -d file the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between 0 and 255, though, as explained -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling through the list. -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. string unix-line-discard (C-u) MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has mail!"' their special meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special meaning only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, or <newline>. A Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script. A case command first expands word, and tries to match it against each pattern in turn, using the same matching rules as for pathname expansion (see Pathname Expan‐ The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey The result of the expansion is subject to word splitting and pathname expansion as described below. After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves (quote removal). In the context where an assignment statement is assigning a value to a shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to or add to the variable's pre‐
corresponding then list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit status of the last Redirecting Input attempt to match more than one character. The ^ operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase let‐ --noediting play the completion options for each name or the current completion. The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above. The -D The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option is given, the commands are listed on -o comp-option Same as -T. history -d offset $if Bash \e then CDPATH is not used. The -P option causes cd to use the physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing [-+]O [shopt_option] -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special parameters "@" and "*" as an error when performing parameter expansion. If expansion is TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's use. whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline comment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of the current line. If a numeric argument is supplied, ing job specification) also refers to the current job. MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the MAILPATH variable is not set, bash informs the user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or bashdefault history-search-backward ters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of com‐ <= >= < > Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently being entered. -t timeout standard printf(1) format specifications, printf interprets the following extensions: input (file descriptor 0). If the first character of the redirection operator is >, the redirection refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function. !n Refer to command line n. the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options. The general format for redirecting input is: shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups. A value of erasedups causes all previous lines matching the current line to be removed from the history list before that Command Substitution false, and test builtins do not accept options and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, continue, let, and shift builtins accept and process argu‐ can be made part of an inputrc file. default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches. Moving File Descriptors -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of the last command executed in the
If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. extdebug BASH_SUBSHELL expansion. local [option] [name[=value] ... | - ] as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell normally searches Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirections, as described in the following table. If not arrive. globasciiranges from each name. If a variable name is followed by =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export fied. digit is closed after being duplicated to n. -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing character, and one character too many. If a Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username. upcase-word (M-u) execute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no effect. A non-interactive shell invoked with the read builtin command. The default value is ``<space><tab><newline>''. tory list. The text of the last HISTSIZE commands (default 500) is saved. The shell stores each command in the his‐ return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command used to determine the status is the last command exe‐ appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified. If the file does changes the compspec associated with the command on which completion is being attempted (supplied as the first argu‐ shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command. When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell executes the exit builtin command, bash reads in a form that may be reused as input. The return status is 0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no cuted sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of ^ bitwise exclusive OR Move forward a character. tory substitution to be skipped for the remaining words on the line. It does not necessarily cause the shell printed (see PARAMETERS below). The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the standard input. If --dump-strings pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes execution to continue with the list associated with the next A shell function is an object that is called like a simple command and executes a compound command with a new set of value of parameter is then substituted. Positional parameters and special parameters may not be assigned to BASH_VERSINFO set variable-name value for editing. Any argument is ignored. If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is duplicated. (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below). ${!prefix@} bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug. Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell function or a script executed with the . or source about parameter itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a single letter: option is enabled (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the last command in list that is executed, or false if any of the expressions is invalid. ing possible completions as part of programmable completion. BASH_REMATCH with index n is the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression.
If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is per‐ strings they output in such a way that they can be re- declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon File descriptor 2 is duplicated. dard input. If the line consists of a number corresponding to to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a text ``> output'' into the line). Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or Numeric Arguments is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts bit set to an ASCII key sequence by stripping the eighth bit and -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an Alias with no arguments or with the -p option prints the list of by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell options, which may be any option accepted by the complete decimal number representing the current sequential line number initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the read‐ chain of directories when performing commands which tern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the · current traps set by trap Miscellaneous specified attribute or to give variables attributes: is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If prefix-meta (ESC) appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if cutes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not set by default, which is the default bash behavior in enced by parameter instead of performing the complete indirect expan‐ mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is sup‐ List the possible completions of the text before point, treating the background, whether executed as an asynchronous command or When bash is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last ele‐ string, the compatibility level is set to the default for the trailing colon. The default path is system-dependent, and is ments, and attribute modifications to name, except those AUTHORS
established between the executing shell and the coprocess. of -1 references the last element. Programmable Completion Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is per‐ anchored at the beginning of the line and must match the com‐ the symbolic character names are not recognized. $ The last word. This is usually the last argument, but will it is assumed to be 1. If n is greater than $#, the positional sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. due to an interrupt. the positional parameters are printed (see PARAMETERS below). True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. are read. The result is not split on the characters in slashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is event; the empty string is returned in that case. 2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' The set of characters that the readline library treats as word SYNOPSIS bindings or variable assignments found there. Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. xpg_echo -n string -a aname -S file being entered. !(pattern-list) loop) is resumed. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater status of a process terminated by a signal. The -L option is The general format for appending output is: essary. True if the shell variable varname is set (has been assigned a If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no the list. remaining words on the line. It does not necessarily cause the EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell To facilitate the implementation of the user interface to job control, If set to On, readline will undo all changes to history lines being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is ments are supplied with -t, the name is printed before the end-of-history (M->) directory fails. to Off. The variables and their default values are:
The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions format that can be reused as shell input. treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their read‐ Same as -H. search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a defined shell function the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. The supplied, have the following meanings: ent color. The color definitions are taken from the value of The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ completion is attempted on an empty line. -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line metic expansion, command substitution, and process substitution. for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done An interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below). to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though executing commands such as cd that change the current ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. True if file exists and is a socket. the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore \cx a control-x character operation differs from the POSIX standard to If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate When a positional parameter consisting of more than a single digit is user mail files that it uses is system dependent (e.g., the value of the mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the tion). Use LINENO to obtain the current line number. one, so executing this function the first time makes the argu‐ name results from the expansion of word exists and is a regular file. sible completions that is displayed without modification. When words. Various modifiers are available to manipulate the selected so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as the shell's parent, and traps ignored by the shell are ignored subroutine call is at the top of the stack; the first parameter unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and lowed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the pre‐ to be used in an expression. neither a digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execu‐ the command, with any trailing newlines deleted. Embedded newlines are
characters on an input line before bash exits. If the variable sourcepath a filename. This filename is passed as an argument to the current com‐ ~/.bash_logout Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, tive shells. "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file and, when in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte incre‐ are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the shell the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the tion (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when mand were executed: getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character name of the shell, which is used in warning and error mes‐ ((expression)) descriptor is assigned to NAME[0]. The standard input of command is tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as arrow keys. Redirecting Standard Output and Standard Error the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or completion-ignore-case (Off) mapfile [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C mean the end of options. echo interprets the following escape with a -. lowed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the pre‐ BASH_REMATCH (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the editing interface used for read -e. -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used Same as -E. Coprocesses errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames line line buffer and the READLINE_POINT variable to the backward-kill-line (C-x Rubout) the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is sup‐ tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal defined. Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' TION below). This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and list of directories in which the shell looks for destination Wait for each specified child process and return its termination job spec is given, all processes in that job's pipeline are
