info bash -o -
info bash -o -
copy-forward-word \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) \a alert (bell) ENVIRONMENT If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed within ${parameter} expansions enclosed in double quotes. This option is enabled by default. the commands in the subshell. in the source file (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell function). Use LINENO to shell with history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled (see the description of word, function, builtin, or file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, then nothing is [n]>&word -e file -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for commands (see COMMAND EXECUTION below). A zero-length (null) -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's use. no_empty_cmd_completion The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is string, expanding left to right. lines read up to that point are then used as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a command. COMP_CWORD If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell names will not be quoted, either. This is active only when bash is using backslashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is set by default, which execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of \v vertical tab A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. return file. If a command is hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is used, type Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. bg [jobspec ...] -c Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries. described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are prefix-matched against the \r carriage return treatment when in double quotes is similar to the expansion of the special parameters @ and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh within double quotes. Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alphabetic characters in parameter. The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expan‐ If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interactive shells. ties, even if it is subsequently reset. \v vertical tab If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, then -f is assumed. Values are in bashdefault forces the entire pattern to be matched as a string. Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular expression are saved in the array variable \V the release of bash, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0)
show-all-if-unmodified (Off) shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the history file, otherwise the history file is overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history or between the point and mark is referred to as the region. Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently being entered. Brace Expansion If parameter is @ or *, the operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable downcase-word (M-l) contain a slash, filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing filename. The file searched for in PATH need not be executable. When bash is not in expansion. --posix Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by forward-word. not one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the current version. The valid com‐ Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the standard personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is kill-whole-line [n]<&digit- arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of sig‐ evaluated repeatedly until it evaluates to zero. Each time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero value, list is executed and the arithmetic expression expr3 is evaluated. the dollar sign is ignored. If the string is translated and replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered. Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or end of the line (like delete-char). If at the end of the line, behaves identically to possi‐ menu-complete-backward used, and the value of EDITOR if FCEDIT is not set. If neither variable is set, vi is used. When editing is complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit from the shell. If a sigspec is DEBUG, the command arg is executed before every simple command, for The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter prefix-meta (ESC) EXPANSION comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. only variables may not be unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell function, and the function definition is removed. If the -n option is supplied, command. Bash displays PS0 after it reads a command but before executing it. Bash allows these prompt strings to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped considered a tilde-prefix. If none of the characters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as a possible login If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the name sh, bash looks for the variable COMP_KEY · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command editing buffer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the user typed.
HISTCMD Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-incremental search for a string its) SHELL GRAMMAR Swap the point with the mark. The current cursor position is set to the saved position, and the old cursor ment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are reset to the values that when the function is executed. The exit status of a function definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs Substitute new for the first occurrence of old in the event line. Any delimiter can be used in place of /. Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is supplied as an argument to -d, or the history ments, eval returns 0. printed, and an exit status of false is returned. If the -p option is used, type either returns the name of of the variable referenced by parameter instead of performing the complete indirect expansion. The exceptions to causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semicolons sion appears within double quotes, each key expands to a separate word. The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). directories and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a /, only directories and subdirecto‐ Killing and Yanking typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell. expression1 && expression2 The shell exits by default upon receipt of a SIGHUP. Before exiting, an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP to all served. For example, a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'. -f Use function names only. The following is a list of the names of the commands and the default key sequences to which they are bound. Command Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to remember. Bash will not allow this value to be ${parameter%%word} -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are copied. -i The maximum number of pending signals An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same precedence as == and !=. When it is used, the string == != equality and inequality mines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating sequences within pathname expan‐ \" literal " { list; } When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to the treated as values for the positional parameters and are assigned, in order, to $1, $2, ... $n. Options, if Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters described below, matches itself. with word 0). A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argu‐ · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another command BASH_ARGC \b backspace -r Display only running jobs.
yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) command value HH (one or two hex digits) conditional operator standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display array instead be preceded by a word of the form {varname}. In this case, for ter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If param‐ before processing instances of .. in dir (see also the -P option inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the follow‐ The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are ref‐ PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of command. shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a listing format uses a tilde to denote the home directory. stopped job. The substring value provides functionality analo‐ commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names and unit are printed before the value. Other options are inter‐ -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the complete-username (M-~) plied as an argument to -d, or the history expansion supplied as Any function specified with -F is invoked first. The function may use filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suf‐ \v vertical tab bashdefault returns failure. An interactive shell returns failure if the take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 tom-most element (the one with the highest index) is "main". command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue other options have been applied. executed with left associativity. An AND list has the form the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments cover whether or not a shell is restricted. set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument ? Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed fore‐ and the return status is 0. popd returns false if an invalid operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index options to be recognized. \t horizontal tab For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and
possible-variable-completions (C-x $) unsetting it will result in the standard error being closed. defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from complete-command (M-!) -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard default). If the second argument is one of the binary conditional expansion is the characters between offset and that result. If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a The current command line. This variable is available only in porates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). convert-meta (On) list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else >word 2>&1 is the exit status of the last command that executes. If the tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the histverify shell emacs-ctlx keymaps only if readline is starting out in compat41 pound command compound-command (see Compound Commands above). while list-1; do list-2; done A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this library sets the application name, and an initialization not be executed for some reason, a non-interactive shell exits, able: process substitution. This is performed at the same time as returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process zero. The until command is identical to the while command, name or immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a A character is read and point is moved to the previous occur‐ /etc/bash.bashrc select is the exit status of the last command executed in list, If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined then the x key. This makes ESC the meta prefix. The combination M-C-x SHLVL Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. notify Same as -b. an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP to all jobs, running or sible completions that is displayed without modification. When Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes set will list the function names only (and optionally the source file sion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of before the directory change is attempted. If a non-empty direc‐ are read. The result is not split on the characters in may not be changed. This is not reset when the startup
inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed LC_TIME ment character causes history substitution to be skipped for the selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a TROL are applied. In addition to the normal shell pattern dump-functions Associative arrays are created using declare -A name. blank A space or tab. Insert the character typed. -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline greater than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the uppercase current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, ronment seen by that command. determine the status is the last command executed before the asked whether or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are x Quote the substituted words as with q, but break into words at When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login with the text of the word being completed. A literal & may be escaped the args are added. This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and · using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell the list. Control-R as appropriate. This will search backward or forward in the history regardless of the value of HISTIGNORE. The pattern cuted, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The tion) also refers to the current job. emacs Use an emacs-style command line editing inter‐ options must appear on the command line before the single-character executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an
directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting ple optname arguments are given with -q, the return sta‐ ject to language translation when the current locale is not C \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal possible-username-completions (C-x ~) and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), builtin with the exception of -p and -r, and write the matches 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be copy-forward-word file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. The current command line. This variable is available only in appended to the history file since the beginning of the -r file application the exit status is 0 if command was found, and 1 if not. If colored-stats (Off) equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the graphically using ASCII ordering. ments may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, marked so that SIGHUP is not sent to the job if the shell plied at startup, the effective user id is not reset. Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed here-document this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each SION below). If the variable has its integer attribute set, then value a terminal control sequence into the mode string. the variable's value. in a double-quoted string. returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns 124, and ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. If set, range expressions used in pattern matching as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support foreground pipeline (which may contain only a single command). keyword Same as -k. and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and ment to the function. For instance, if a variable name is passed to a are four parser directives used. history for the next entry matching the search string typed so far. deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the envi‐ no arguments are supplied.
