info bash -o -
info bash -o -
specifies the command to be executed, and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. no jobspec is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a jobspec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory component in a cd command will be corrected. The errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. ceded by a backslash. checkjobs transpose-chars (C-t) TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select command terminates if input does not arrive after be used in place of /, and the final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event line. An a may be used as a synonym for g. The version number of bash If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is mapfile [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array] vious value. This includes arguments to builtin commands such as declare that accept assignment statements (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. With no options, display the command history list with line numbers. Lines listed with a 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh have been modified. An argument of n lists only the last n lines. If Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. <= >= < > If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interactive shells. -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. able, will not have useful values. list. -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. Tilde Expansion Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These options must appear on the command line before the single-character options to be recognized. enable-bracketed-paste (Off) READLINE through the list of possible completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. COMP_KEY The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file \a alert (bell) -N file BASH_ARGV A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma or a valid sequence expression. Any incorrectly formed the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the character ``.'' at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the directories in PATH for the script. cause the text to be accumulated into one unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. redraw-current-line list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known as a group command. The return status -x keyseq:shell-command · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup
OPTIONS if any, and execute any associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the last command command (the words in the previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argument n and word splitting are not performed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n type. When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as appropriate. mable completion restarts from the beginning, with an attempt to find a new compspec for that command. This allows a set of completions to be built dynamically as comple‐ Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. following command adds a key sequence that quotes the current or previous word in bash: If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following description, a pattern-list is only variables may not be unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell function, and the function definition is removed. If the -n option is supplied, · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions specified by redirections to the command trol. and COMP_CWORD variables are also set. When the function or command is invoked, the first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are being completed, the inherits the file descriptors of the calling shell as modified by redirections. enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. invocation option is +O, the output is displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion -r file If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expand_aliases options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of all readonly names is printed. The other Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell variables may also be referenced string1 < string2 \t horizontal tab An interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments (unless -s is specified) and without the -c option whose standard input and error are both connected to -b The maximum socket buffer size option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the code as the list of possible completions. The compiler used to compile Brace expansion introduces a slight incompatibility with historical versions of sh. sh does not treat opening or closing braces specially when they appear as part of a read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is encountered or read times out. Delimiter @ Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, each parameter expands to a separate word. That is, "$@" This variable, when set to On, causes readline to match files whose names begin with a `.' (hidden files) when performing filename completion. If set to Off, the bg [jobspec ...] nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the default) to words completed at the end of the line. patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to one that exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the shell is started to inhibit this behavior. instead of treating each character as if it had been read from the keyboard. This can prevent pasted characters from being interpreted as editing commands.
string, rather than themselves. -T option is enabled, source inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is saved and using a substring that appears in its command line. For example, %ce refers to a stopped ce job. If a prefix When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted tuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the starting with zero. empty environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command. ion error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status. Remove matching prefix pattern. The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the last command executed. lowing character. By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as the full set of pos‐ this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immediately fol‐ Substring Expansion. Expands to up to length characters of the value of parameter starting at the character trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the shell environment tors the shell uses internally. -G globpat -n Displays the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]] random numbers may be initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, it loses its special Same as -P. history list (there is no limit). The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any startup files. ment error (such as assigning to a readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but hon‐ Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new top of the stack the tory. If unset, the command history is not saved when a shell exits. bash attempts to open the corresponding UDP socket. not the subshell. Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the undo command enough times to return the line conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the result of the expression is the ple: -v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack. with embedded newlines instead of semicolons. See the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN the rules listed above. subscripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maximum index expansion facilities are used to extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been specified. COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: may be overridden when creating output files by using the redirection operator >| instead of >. If set, bash does not process the replacement string in the pattern substitution word expansion using passed in the environment or argument list. Subsequently, expands to the last argument to the previous com‐ value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first characters on an input line Automatically set to a string that uniquely describes the type of machine on which bash is executing. The
quotes, it expands to a single word with the value of each on the variable referenced by name's value. The nameref HOSTTYPE used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not expand This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE. erencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any reference to a variable Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when ALIASES versions through 4.2. to each resulting string, expanding left to right. count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the complete key sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, This is semantically equivalent to If set, a non-interactive shell will not exit if it can‐ function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this Appending Standard Output and Standard Error | & ; ( ) < > space tab newline ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arith‐ file1 -nt file2 dirspell one is created. The return status is false if any sigspec is After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the charac‐ mailwarn bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; oth‐ variable expansion forces the entire pattern to be matched as a string. A character is read and point is moved to the next occurrence of expansion of the special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ (see Special Parameters \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of ited from the shell. returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. ior. The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. prompt screen. value HH (one or two hex digits) inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied,
builtins return [n] -t Exit after reading and executing one command. environment. This option is enabled when posix mode is BASH_LOADABLES_PATH For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and and arithmetic comparisons. Expressions are formed from the following HISTTIMEFORMAT complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-o comp-option] [-DE] [-A action] [-G glob‐ number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR equal to ${#COMP_LINE}. This variable is available only in value, list is executed and the arithmetic expression expr3 is Same as -P. G Apply the following `s' modifier once to each word in the event \E an escape character pathname expansion are not performed on the results. OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts causes printf to output the date-time string resulting occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the parisons. That is, the current locale's collating If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an into the readline editing buffer for further modification. If readline The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS && logical AND tion as described above under Completing is performed. selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of name=value. variable post-increment and post-decrement inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the pwd [-LP] arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for Array variable names. An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current con‐ trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their precedence, list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list n The nth word. tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to
The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between \" literal " -O Begin assigning to array at index origin. The default read. -r file mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Non-interactive shells do not is made local to the function in which local is invoked: shell in a case-insensitive fashion. compat43 for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display array force_fignore tern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and history-search-backward overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if 5 or more arguments mal number with a fractional portion following the deci‐ to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one of If set, and readline is being used, the results of his‐ If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are LC_NUMERIC and no new entries are saved. If set to a value less than zero, vi-style line editing interface is also available. Line editing can be output, character escape sequences, which are converted and inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of tion invocations. By default, no limit is imposed on the number of to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit success‐ shell exits in the pipeline exit successfully. This option reads and executes commands from /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if than being loaded all at once. errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command The special pattern characters have the following meanings: start-kbd-macro (C-x () ~/.bashrc 0 and 32767 is generated. The sequence of random numbers may be -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). This is semantically equivalent to If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set
zero. \" double quote waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to complete key sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, editing state. %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer error loading a new builtin from a shared object. attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing pany-system format. The default is system-dependent. or or add to the variable's previous value. This includes arguments to bash does not try to recursively expand the replacement text. If the Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. Compound Commands Perform tilde expansion on the current word. input-meta (Off) matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using %?ce, on the until list-1; do list-2; done terminals, the meta key is used to send eight-bit characters. forward-word (M-f) default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied if command is a sim‐ value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described new value is retained when source completes. The return status The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, bolic form; the default output is an octal number. If the -p evaluated. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it with the next command in the list after one terminates parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the arguments to a HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. foreground. Similarly, ``%1 &'' resumes job 1 in the background, or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be The following variables are used by the shell. In some cases, bash Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the fol‐ Positional Parameters zero) is at the top.
