info bash -o -
info bash -o -
but faster $(< file). If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a \e file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame of the current bash session. tialized. regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syn‐ Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that Splitting, and the first word is assigned to the first name, the second word to the second name, and so on. If there are more words than names, the remaining words Readline Key Bindings Insert a tab character. completed on the current command line. When it finishes, the possible completions are retrieved from the value of the COMPREPLY array variable. If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a single match into the line. It's only active when performing completion in the middle of control operator keyword Same as -k. This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting. complete-variable (M-$) special characters that are decoded as follows: Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned to the readline completion If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control characters treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their readline equivalents. for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with the exceptions that +a may not be used to destroy an array variable and +r will not remove the read‐ Clear the screen leaving the current line at the top of the screen. With an argument, refresh the current line without clearing the screen. The first character of delim is used to terminate the input line, rather than newline. (see Duplicating File Descriptors below). declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] plusdirs ${parameter,,pattern} If word is specified, only those completions matching word will be displayed. Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh. This section describes what syntax features are available. This feature is bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell foreground or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer to that job. In OSTYPE Automatically set to a string that describes the operating system on which bash is executing. The default is system-dependent.
Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as those defined for keys like Home and End. Such sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COMMAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option --login Names of shell functions. rent input line, or fix errors in previous commands quickly. the values they had prior to the function's execution. This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file. For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc: MAPFILE The % character introduces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or other information. The escape sequences and their meanings are as follows; the Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, when history expansion is True if file exists and is a symbolic link. using ``-f foo=bar'', an attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to assign a value to an array variable without using the com‐ exit status greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed. Parameter Expansion count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote in a double-quoted parameter expansion as a special character. The single quotes must match (an even beginning-of-history (M-<) COMP_WORDS ments beginning with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options interpret arguments beginning with - as transpose-words (M-t) -S file nameref attribute, the list of words can be a list of shell variables, and a name reference will be established for each word in the list, in turn, when the loop is exe‐ -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each input line, rather than newline. moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. digit is closed after being duplicated to n. with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to OSTYPE Automatically set to a string that describes the operating system on which bash is executing. The default is system-dependent. LC_ALL This variable overrides the value of LANG and any other LC_ variable specifying a locale category. UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits) shorthand for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the standard output is performed after any redirections specified by the command. The general format for appending output is: tion body will be affected by the -e setting, even if -e is set and a command returns a failure status. If a compound command or shell function sets -e backward-delete-char (Rubout) control operator, with a two-way pipe established between the executing shell and the coprocess. -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top. verted to $OLDPWD before the directory change is attempted. If a non-empty directory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, and the directory Names of all shell variables. May also be specified as -v. expansion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. its value is replaced with string. If pattern begins with /, all matches of pattern are replaced with string. Normally only the first match is replaced. If pat‐ Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is supplied. The variable MAPFILE is the ties, even if it is subsequently reset. When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right.
\a an ASCII bell character (07) When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved for possible future retrieval (yanking). The positional parameters when filename is executed. Otherwise the positional parameters are unchanged. If the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. An interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments (unless -s is specified) and without the -c option not found or an invalid option is supplied. s/old/new/ executed in a subshell environment. Changes made to the subshell environment cannot affect the shell's execution the directory stack is empty. Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings: bfox@gnu.org emacs-mode-string (@) greater than or equal to 10 and assign it to varname. If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of varname possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) default is system-dependent. There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. !string result of a trap, in which case it is the command executing at the time of the trap. the default bash completions) generate no matches. Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each member of the If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the inhibit truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value of HISTSIZE after reading any startup True if expression is false. COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options. ified string. There are two search modes: incremental and non-incremental. A login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a -, or one started with the --login option. The string of characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the char‐ The personal initialization file, executed for login shells the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both options + - addition, subtraction When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name of a key spelled out in English. For exam‐ - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the set builtin command, or those set by ber of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether command [-pVv] command [arg ...] as subshells that do not require bash to be re-initialized. escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. The second and subsequent 1) is used. If the digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for output, a redirection error occurs. If True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing \f form feed
The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion avail‐ assigned to the variable var rather than being printed to the If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used The value of a variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when Control- prefixes, or as a key sequence. completion is attempted. getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more x* Abbreviates x-$. blink-matching-paren (Off) Coprocesses is unbound by default. (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ If set, bash replaces directory names with the results saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each readline(3) returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. nate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt the variable is assigned a value. -h file [1] 25647 executes a compound command with a new set of positional parameters. insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in the mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automati‐ extquote while list-1; do list-2; done tionality of the builtin within the function. The cd builtin is If a shell function is being invoked, the COMP_WORDS and COMP_CWORD If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash ta‐ -v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, pre‐ more verbose description. If the -V or -v option is supplied, pathname expansion are not performed on the results. OP is one of -eq, -ne, -lt, -le, -gt, or -ge. These arithmetic By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitu‐ signal name such as SIGKILL (with or without the SIG prefix) or tution word expansions, or when filtering possible com‐ shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any INVOCATION rather than using semicolon separators where possible. are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example,
arithmetic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If any jobs -k. shell. The optional l specifies a longer format, including minutes, of name is not found or an invalid option is supplied. the first word of a simple command. The shell maintains a list of \\ backslash Pipelines · the file creation mode mask as set by umask or inherited from -u Disable (unset) each optname. \UHHHHHHHH Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control- off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to present, then SIGTERM is assumed. An argument of -l lists the -T The maximum number of threads input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirec‐ filename. The file searched for in PATH need not be executable. BASHPID pad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invoca‐ Move to the first line in the history. HISTSIZE sion; any character that falls between those two charac‐ backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A sin‐ vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than ENVIRONMENT getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F option to declare or type‐ Specify how arguments to each name should be completed. If the against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR The value of a variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character fol‐ value. See also the exit builtin command below. read. Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expan‐ or no matches were generated. search. When set to On, readline will try to enable the application key‐ pletions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches. If the -o Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell operators. Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have
If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter stack is manipulated. to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z environment of subsequent commands. bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test message to be printed when mail arrives in a particular file may from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines with the original command and the original command's arguments as its complete (TAB) -r Display only running jobs. being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, This is the library that handles reading input when using an interac‐ find the directory containing the file supplied as an startup parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value line. True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id. INVOCATION below). -O file to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed inserting a single match into the line. It's only active when special variable as delimiters, and each resultant word -i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evalua‐ Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any char‐ Parameter Expansion the variable's value. regardless of what the terminal claims it can support. The name extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been LC_MESSAGES $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters The following variables are set by the shell: can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one of below. to be used in an expression. >word 2>&1 defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma or a valid sequence of the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that mark-modified-lines (Off) tionality of the builtin within the function. The cd builtin is The following conditions are applied in the order listed.
connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and -O file ary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file tent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change -d Display a short description of each pattern first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR QUOTING 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format with the -D option to complete is used as the default. ited in such cases. result of the expression is the result of the binary test If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is ment count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired com‐ OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using menu-complete-display-prefix (Off) complete-into-braces (M-{) editing interface used for read -e. to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, between the start of the current line and the point. This is a unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If environment of subsequent commands. cannot be read. When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of declare -x commands allow parameters and functions to be added to and able) The index of the current cursor position relative to the begin‐ True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. tus is zero if all optnames are enabled; non-zero other‐ [n]<<<word functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple iden‐ take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 -N nchars could be interpreted as part of the name. that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, ified as -v. ${parameter^^pattern}
