info bash -o -
info bash -o -
whitespace character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters, delimits a field. A sequence of IFS whitespace The value of this parameter is used as a format string specifying how the timing information for pipelines prefixed with the time reserved word should be displayed. The general format for redirecting output is: dirnames Move to the first line in the history. When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The first backquote not preceded by a Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop. If n is specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of enclosing loops, all When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that consists of the following. Unless terminal. Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the options. The :, true, -n Give each name the nameref attribute, making it a name reference to another variable. That other variable is defined by the value of name. All references, than the number of enclosing loops, the last enclosing loop (the ``top-level'' loop) is resumed. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1. nocaseglob a list of one or more patterns separated by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: -P List current readline function names and bindings. If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked as described above in ignore SIGINT and SIGQUIT in addition to these inherited handlers. Commands run as a result of command substitution ignore the keyboard-generated job control signals SIGT‐ ments deviates from this are noted below. right hand side (that is, to insert the text ``> output'' into the line). \d the date in "Weekday Month Date" format (e.g., "Tue May 26") FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. diately instead of ringing the bell. -l Make bash act as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). errtrace If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. and word splitting are not performed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n Insert a tab character. compat42 If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if array is not an indexed array. brace expansion with the +B option to the set command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below). names match one of these patterns are not considered executable files for the purposes of completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not affect the one may use filenames with tildes in assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the expanded value. Same as -p. echo-control-characters (On) said to be in the foreground. Background processes are those whose process group ID differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-generated signals. and until list-1; do list-2; done Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). verted to $OLDPWD before the directory change is attempted. If a non-empty directory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, and the directory -u file Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in the current shell.
-A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above). pipeline exit successfully. This option is disabled by default. $endif This command, as seen in the previous example, terminates an $if command. \v vertical tab LC_ALL This variable overrides the value of LANG and any other LC_ variable specifying a locale category. resource or one of the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively. If limit displayed. variable pre-increment and pre-decrement load completions dynamically: bfox@gnu.org is on by default if the shell is invoked as sh. way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. A sample value is ".:~:/usr". function name [()] compound-command [redirection] A character that, when unquoted, separates words. One of the following: comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Bash behaves as if the following command were executed: If set at shell invocation, arrange to execute the debugger profile before the shell starts, identical to the --debugger option. If set after invocation, enable-keypad (Off) expansion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point over that word as well. If point is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on loaded into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modification. word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as a token. enabled, !. When the shell is in posix mode, the ! has no special meaning within double quotes, even when history expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain --posix True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of options under the description of the -o option to the set builtin below. Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal width when printing selection lists. Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an /bin/bash closed. There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. · turning off restricted mode with set +r or set +o restricted. BASH_ARGC end-kbd-macro (C-x )) If an invalid option is seen, getopts places ? into name and, if not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If getopts is silent, the option character history-size (unset) If a command fails because of an error during expansion or redirection, the exit status is greater than zero. ters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of com‐ A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read tialization file can test for a particular value. This could be used to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific program. For instance, the no_empty_cmd_completion
convert-meta (On) exit [n] when the function is executed. The exit status of a function definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in the current shell. mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[. If this sequence is bound to "\[", return [n] tern, and 1 otherwise. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. If set to On, readline will convert characters with the eighth bit set to an ASCII key sequence by stripping it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z takes effect immediately, and has the additional side takes place in two parts. The first is to determine which line from the history list to use during substitution. TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select Substitute new for the first occurrence of old in the event line. Any delimiter can be used in place of /. If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is interpreted as a filename con‐ mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} source filename [arguments] !string to obtain the current line number. These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. Read in the contents of the inputrc file, and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found there. The systemwide login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits scripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the commands and bindings. values they had prior to the function's execution. -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a way that they can be re-read. Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a descrip‐ default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches. \n new line vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argument. if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word of the simple command. this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immediately fol‐ The general format for appending output is: previous-history (C-p) verbose Same as -v. Note that the order of redirections is significant. For example, the command delete-char-or-list ${parameter,pattern} echo-control-characters (On) option is enabled by default. stamp associated with each history entry displayed by the history builtin. If this variable is set, time comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes his‐ NAME_PID. The wait builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate.
plete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. rent locale's collation sequence and strcoll(3). JOB CONTROL xtrace Same as -x. results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty string. builtin shell-builtin [arguments] fashion when performing pathname expansion (see Pathname · shell aliases defined with alias rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless the exit status is greater than zero. --dump-strings readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] operators. The levels are listed in order of decreasing precedence. slashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin exists but does not have a numeric value, or has no value, the specified. If the file does not exist it is created. When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled command is executed in a subshell environment, and its clear-screen (C-l) matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash comple‐ expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error HISTIGNORE is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If parameter. If length evaluates to a number less than zero, it COMPREPLY word of a case or for command: invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history tory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, options are turned off. If there are no args, the posi‐ When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned a subshell). to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. -x The maximum number of file locks Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) mailwarn if it matches the pattern, its case is converted. The pattern histverify -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the
builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options sigspec is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes. plete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. is created. The arguments become the arguments to command. If Names of shell functions. null string, as appropriate, had been supplied. The return the background, whether executed as an asynchronous command or Positional Parameters : [arguments] received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the ${parameter:?word} otherwise it will emulate them internally with the behavior described acters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth played in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments getopts within the same shell invocation if a new set of parame‐ history -d offset Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in mand. If this variable has not been given a value, the charac‐ sequences: -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline tion resumes after the function or script. M-Control-u: universal-argument BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word beginning with # causes that word and \c suppress further output test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is sup‐ line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; oth‐ places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing defined, directory name completion is attempted. entire regular expression. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index n is For each name in the argument list for which no value is sup‐ list. The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE variables may be set to cause the function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a Insert the character typed. bind [-m keymap] -f filename the job most recently accessed is selected. The name of a tern (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the help [-dms] [pattern] must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known The current command line. This variable is available only in word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion. names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format SYNOPSIS
-X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the x* Abbreviates x-$. than being loaded all at once. another file to be read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the globstar In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the keyseq-timeout (500) If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is READLINE Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) becomes -d after word splitting and null argument removal. dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the + - addition, subtraction -o optname use during substitution. The second is to select portions of that line lowercase and uppercase letters may be used interchangeably to repre‐ BASHPID shell function as its first argument, running Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history ning of the expanded value of parameter. If pattern begins with -2 represents the time the shell was invoked. If no values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on The command currently being executed or about to be executed, enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] command1 && command2 ronment or argument list. Subsequently, expands to the last mand associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execu‐ effect. A non-interactive shell invoked with the name sh does not -t fd True if file descriptor fd is open and refers to a terminal. defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ mands). loops in the caller's context). -u When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case dard input. If the line consists of a number corresponding to appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are ronment. If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a EXPANSION
results of the other actions. +n Removes the nth entry counting from the left of the list calling shell as modified by redirections. A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing output, character escape sequences, which are converted and mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. This vari‐ -C If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with (see Coprocesses above). meta-flag is a synonym for this variable. The default is Off, http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/ value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. The format is a character string which contains three types of clears the -e option in such subshells. it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is pathname expansion context, two adjacent *s used as a -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) ple optname arguments are given with -q, the return sta‐ When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. subscript are supplied, that index is assigned to; otherwise the index Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, the last command beginning with that string) or as a number (an bash creates temporary files for the shell's use. aries are the same as backward-word. option to the history builtin may be used to add commands to the end of versions of sh. sh does not treat opening or closing braces specially waited for. If n is not given, all currently active child pro‐ standard output is performed after any redirections specified by the \" double quote formed. enable-meta-key (On) ter is an array name subscripted by 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value substi‐ between a function and its caller with these exceptions: the DEBUG and BASH_VERSINFO tory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is apply to ``empty'' command completion; that is, completion processing. Any arguments after the -- are treated as file‐ this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possi‐ If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading prefix-meta (ESC) the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is
