info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The process of applying these completion specifications when word completion is attempted is described above under Programmable Completion. through the history (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been specified. new builtin from a shared object. Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ shell-backward-kill-word promptvars expr1 -a expr2 to the function in which local is invoked: shell options changed using the set builtin inside the function are restored to their original values when the function && logical AND Delete the character at point. If this function is bound to the same character as the tty EOF character, as C-d commonly is, see above for the effects. Redirections using file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with care, as they may conflict with file descriptors the shell uses internally. dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in the results of pathname expansion. _ At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script being executed as passed in the environment or argument list. Subsequently, -w file nosort Tell readline not to sort the list of possible completions alphabetically. history Enable command history, as described above under HISTORY. This option is on by default in interactive shells. If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control characters treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their readline equivalents. -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues shell-forward-word /etc/bash.bashrc fications. The -D option indicates that the remaining options and actions should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a Expand the line as the shell does. This performs alias and history expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a --verbose time a shell function or a script executed with the . or source builtins finishes executing. %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input. If set, the value is executed as a command prior to issuing each primary prompt. coproc [NAME] command [redirections] the -T option is enabled, source inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to source, and source unsets umask [-p] [-S] [mode] checkwinsize quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as HISTFILESIZE standard printf(1) format specifications, printf interprets the following extensions: with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to issue when functions are executed. Aliases are expanded when a function definition is read, not when the function is executed, because a function definition is itself a history [n] --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit successfully. start-kbd-macro (C-x () -N nchars History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the arguments to a previous command into the cur‐ A character that, when unquoted, separates words. One of the following: The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the arguments. If the format requires more arguments than are supplied, the extra format specifications behave Programmable Completion 1024-byte increments, except for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte blocks; -P, -T, -b, -k, -n, and -u, which are unscaled values; and, when vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard.
no limit is imposed on the number of recursive calls. time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed. execfail True if file exists and is a socket. noexec Same as -n. -p file tus of zero. - Signal the end of options, cause all remaining args to be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v options are turned off. If there are no and word splitting are not performed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n sidered binary operators when there are three arguments. If the first argument is !, the value is the negation of the two-argument test using the second and \\ a backslash Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the standard personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to all members of an array. dirnames File descriptor 0 is duplicated. The personal initialization file, executed for login shells the history expansion character is also treated as quoted if it immediately precedes the closing double quote in a double-quoted string. If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline arithmetic expansion and command substitution. True if the shell variable varname is set (has been assigned a value). RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between 0 and 32767 is generated. The sequence of random numbers may be initialized by assigning a value to getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. ENV, expands its value if it is defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Since a shell invoked as sh does not attempt to read and the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options. Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command specified with the -F and -C options is invoked. When the command or function is invoked, the obtain the current line number. rather than wrapping to a new line. PROMPTING above. This option is enabled by default. Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alphabetic characters in parameter. The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expan‐ variable post-increment and post-decrement the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each member of the -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated shift_verbose is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the tilde-expand (M-&) The history number, or index in the history list, of the current command. If HISTCMD is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. ${parameter^pattern} ters to lowercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character in the expanded value; the ^ and , expansions match and convert only the first character Search forward through the history using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user.
command1 || command2 characters from the end of the value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the expansion is the ments in BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE to describe the call stack. For instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HISTORY below). The default value is ~/.bash_his‐ True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. A synonym for yank-last-arg. lows, with the exception of <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the tern, and 1 otherwise. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. only the stack is manipulated. bg [jobspec ...] lines appended to the history file since the beginning of the current bash session. -u Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input. The number of screen columns used to display possible matches when performing completion. The value is The shell sets this option if it is started as a login shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may to a non-null value has the effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames beginning with a ${!prefix*} acters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace readline library sets the application name, and an initialization file can test for a particular value. or GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system-dependent. \b backspace empty) before cycling through the list. option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. The -s The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index subscript. Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification taining a @ is being completed (see Completing under READLINE above). This is enabled by default. \T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format "\C-xq": "\eb\"\ef\"" the enable command. SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION name expansion and pattern matching. & bitwise AND If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about that job. The return status is 0 unless an ated completions against the word being completed is performed; the function or command has complete freedom in gen‐ at one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or added as additional key-value pairs in an asso‐ lent to On. All other values are equivalent to Off. The variables and their default values are: ment. Otherwise, the expression is false. cutable files for the purposes of completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not affect the there are arguments after the command_string, the first argument is assigned to $0 and any remaining argu‐ treated specially and do not cause read to return until nchars characters are read. The result is not cally set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. while list-1; do list-2; done \\ backslash command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero. The shell function function is executed in the current shell environment. When the function is exe‐
FUNCTIONS executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG and mal number with a fractional portion following the deci‐ expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is a `~-', the value of user User names. May also be specified as -u. stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This caller [expr] not be executed for some reason, a non-interactive shell exits, ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below). words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the Killing and Yanking 2 arguments used for pathname expansion, the character ``.'' at the start of a sigspec is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes. attempted on a blank line. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any Equivalent to -D. If set to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it nected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is shorthand the list. variables exported for the command, passed in the environment -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was help [-dms] [pattern] easy re-editing of multi-line commands. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. Without options, displays the list of currently remembered are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may be listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status argument to Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history descriptor n is checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries pat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C command] --norc Do not read and execute the system wide initialization file names, quoting special characters, or suppress‐ following meanings: array. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. The read the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see in the order they are displayed by the dirs builtin. Assigning specify the format of the time information. to be used in an expression.
for special characters, to prevent reserved words from being recognized user typed. when performing completion. The value is ignored if it is less command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A sin‐ contains eight-bit characters. Next, any command specified with the -C option is invoked in an envi‐ nounset Same as -u. completion even if the ignored words are the only possi‐ had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's If set to On, the history code attempts to place point at the resultant list. and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution through the history as necessary. This is an incremental input line, rather than newline. If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option PIPESTATUS nothing. If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not move point. deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the envi‐ history -s arg [arg ...] TION ENVIRONMENT below). Variable assignments and builtin com‐ attempted that caused a completion function to be called: TAB, declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ extglob If set, the extended pattern matching features described ments. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argu‐ If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ${parameter:=word} %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer below for a reference to a document that details shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. Word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ True if the length of string is non-zero. The -d option will delete a builtin previously loaded with -f. -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them from expan‐ able HISTFILE (default ~/.bash_history). The file named by the value The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS is the resultant list. enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. first directory in the stack.
shell exits If set to On, and completion-ignore-case is enabled, readline tents of the directory stack. Directories appear in the stack -r Read the contents of the history file and append them to specified, the standard output (file descriptor 1) is used. If the Show version information for this instance of bash on the stan‐ value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the file descriptor greater than or equal to 10 and assign it to varname. ble completions. -x The maximum number of file locks sequently reset. The exit status is true unless a name is read‐ not read within timeout seconds. timeout may be a deci‐ the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any addi‐ string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and other options have been applied. invocation, the shell scans its own environment and creates a parameter sion in the EXPANSION section. MAILPATH mal point. This option is only effective if read is EXIT is executed before the shell terminates. whether or not each is set. The -p option causes output to be list of possible completions: unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it a subshell). the last command executed within the script as the exit status shell function as its first argument, running command always returns success. The return status of a coprocess is objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell value HH (one or two hex digits) line. When the search is terminated, the history entry containing the table object) file format. error. The symbols %% and %+ refer to the shell's notion of the cur‐ line, then restore the history line to its original state. tion, and the function definition is removed. If the -n option nothing (i.e., they are removed). current version. The valid compatibility levels correspond to commands. value of $$, and the value of PPID comment-begin (``#'') p Print the new command but do not execute it. filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was sup‐ or end of the line (like delete-char). If at the end of the whose names begin with a `.' (hidden files) when performing An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remem‐ files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION
lent to if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. · specifying command names containing / enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the fol‐ \d delete tory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is The corresponding argument is an integer representing the $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, ited in such cases. list. The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE variables may be set to cause the duces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. in a function, declare and typeset make each name local, as with are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are said to be in options, or for the currently-executing completion if no names In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omit‐ described above. The -D option indicates that the remaining 0 arguments when the format string is displayed. the shell's arguments when it is invoked, and may be reassigned using pound command compound-command (see Compound Commands above). file into the current history list. These are lines MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro given then display the values of variables. The -p option will associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop other history lines. set to the real user id. If the -p option is supplied at invocation, If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell CHILD_MAX a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated that they can be re-read. Turning this option off causes the effective user and Word Designators perform hostname completion when a word containing a @ -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing new‐
