info bash -o -
info bash -o -
``<space><tab><newline>''. play the completion options for each name or the current completion. The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above. The -D SYNOPSIS -A action When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a kill ring. Consecutive kills A token that performs a control function. It is one of the following symbols: -G file \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit successfully. s/old/new/ nullglob This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin. Individual array elements may be assigned to using the name[subscript]=value syntax introduced above. When assigning For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero exit status indicates failure. slash escapes the following character; the escaping backslash is discarded when matching. The special pattern characters must be quoted if they are to be matched liter‐ --posix is invoked, and may be reassigned using the set builtin command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to with assignment statements. The positional parameters are --dump-po-strings not inherited in such cases. Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to pre‐ x- Abbreviates x-$ like x*, but omits the last word. -F function option produces a more verbose description. If the -V or -v option is supplied, the exit status is 0 if command was found, and 1 if not. If neither option is sup‐ -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read. \n newline -P If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when executing commands such as cd that change the current working directory. It uses the physical direc‐ AND and OR lists are sequences of one or more pipelines separated by the && and || control operators, respectively. AND and OR lists are executed with left associativity. rent input line, or fix errors in previous commands quickly. one that exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the shell is started to inhibit this behavior. count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer to different files, and can change the files the command reads from and writes to. Redirection may also be used to modify file is escaped using a backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. Appending Redirected Output legal, and bash will create an array if necessary. If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, and the return status is 0. popd returns false if an invalid option is encountered, the directory described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are prefix-matched against the running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the set builtin. history Enable command history, as described above under HISTORY. This option is on by default in interactive shells. \b backspace If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to. Functions may be recursive. The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of function invocations. By default,
· specifying the -p option to the command builtin command COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an unnamed coprocess (see Coprocesses above). reasons. Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns of eval. If there are no args, or only null arguments, eval returns 0. expansion is not performed. Assignment statements may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration The format for appending standard output and standard error is: mand substitution, or parameter expansion. Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently being entered. The backslash character (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next character read and for line continuation. Options, if supplied, have the follow‐ causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for both reading and writing on file descriptor n, or on file descriptor 0 if n is not specified. If the expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in upcoming versions of bash. variable formed from the rest of parameter as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than explicitly, unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the ``.'' character COMP_POINT keyword Same as -k. Move back a character. -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd -0'' removes the last directory, ``popd -1'' in the source file (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell function). Use LINENO to is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the file1 -ef file2 This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words which have more than one possible \e an ASCII escape character (033) operator, the expression is false. bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked as described above in This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting. eval [arg ...] returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered. array beginning at one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or added as additional key-value pairs in an associative array. When applied to a Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be Here Documents The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed without modification. When set to a value greater than zero, com‐ The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this document. no limit is imposed on the number of recursive calls. If word is specified, only those completions matching word will be displayed. A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the . builtin command insert-completions (M-*)
to obtain the current line number. plusdirs system-dependent. ing shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning for variables. before reporting changes in a job's status so as to not interrupt any other output. If the -b option to the set filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed Kill backward to the beginning of the line. command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions. noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words if they are filenames (quoting filenames is the 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh exponentiation $include /etc/inputrc export Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as -e. move point. When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell executes the exit builtin command, bash reads The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, or arithmetic expansion. The parameter name options accepted by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the variable name to have a vis‐ READLINE_LINE The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh. This section ditional operators such as -f must be unquoted to be recognized as primaries. -u Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input. acters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no substitution occurs. BASH_COMMAND removed from the environment passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RANDOM, SECONDS, vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled using The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word of the simple command. In this example, C-u is again bound to the function universal-argument. C-x C-r is bound to the function Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; and &, which have equal precedence. This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) index of the next array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that element as additional argu‐ saves any partial input read into the specified variable name. If timeout is 0, read returns immedi‐ The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below). When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. ues are shared between the function and its caller. relative to one greater than the greatest positional parameter, so an offset of -1 evaluates to the last posi‐ ^string1^string2^ True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. Functions may be recursive. The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack and shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, then nothing is $include
compound command other than a subshell returns a non- Modify completion options for each name according to the bell-style) and the original text is restored. An argument of n True if file exists and is executable. "\C-u": universal-argument able (there is no value by default), but the location of the ? Matches any single character. alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command, True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). assigned to $0 and any remaining arguments are assigned to nnn (zero to three octal digits) shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the loops in the caller's context). of -1 references the last element. appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is \a alert (bell) that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as sh, bash name if it does not exist, and the index of the next argument to The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login variables exported for the command, passed in the environment one, so executing this function the first time makes the argu‐ files where each corresponding member of FUNCNAME was invoked. second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this docu‐ specified by redirections to the command BASH_REMATCH of the script. If n is supplied, the return value is its least The -H and -S options specify that the hard or soft limit is set alias [-p] [name[=value] ...] [n]<word and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a /, unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS). at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of parameter If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is con‐ parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name of the variable refer‐ Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is ization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive (see INVOCA‐ one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not the first non-option argument, and name is set to ?. Parameter transformation. The expansion is either a transforma‐ and &, which have equal precedence. Since the coprocess is created as an asynchronous command, the coproc
Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern changed; false otherwise. locale and the values of the LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell less than zero, the history file is not truncated. When the history prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the and false otherwise. decimal number representing the current sequential line number If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. When a compspec indicates that directory name completion is desired, editing state. list. The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE variables may be set to cause the used, $0 is prefixed to the list. to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The his‐ The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey backward-char (C-b) items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ Expand the line as the shell does. This performs alias and his‐ variable. results of the other actions. -h file EXIT is executed before the shell terminates. commands read from the standard input or from a file. Bash also incor‐ dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command ls 2>&1 > dirlist bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each just those that precede the command name. nullglob -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and be used to add and remove directories. Assignment to this vari‐ If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no in a locale-specific time representation. The braces are returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process sion. forward-word (M-f) array element contains one possible completion. option. True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to
The format of here-documents is: output to be sent to the standard error. Note that setting BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with array is not an indexed array. Moving File Descriptors ter not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of char‐ tered. using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the Variables above). Alias with no arguments or with the -p option prints the list of set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...] file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not. DEFINITIONS tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and command sub‐ commands (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The first word of each be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v tional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]] new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, login_shell Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs specified attribute or to give variables attributes: clear-screen (C-l) deleted using the -f option to the unset builtin. Note that shell When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that If set, the programmable completion facilities (see Pro‐ tion invocations. By default, no limit is imposed on the number of appended to the history file since the beginning of the If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined is enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline will wait PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support first non-option argument command_string. If there are argu‐ tus greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed. GLOBIGNORE last process in the pipeline associated with this job is 25647. All of -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, display a non-existent function with -f. delete-horizontal-space (M-\) it as a hostname. options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of # are comments. Lines beginning with a $ indicate conditional con‐ the -r option below).
sion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. attempted on a blank line. assigned to $0 and any remaining arguments are assigned to BASH_VERSINFO[3] The build version. the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from echo-control-characters (On) or arithmetic expansion. The parameter name or symbol to be expanded tuting one string for another in the command. The default is sion before the complete builtin is invoked. 3. Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION. supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; if not, timestamps for the following history entry. The return value is words. Various modifiers are available to manipulate the selected the expansion is not within double quotes, each positional file as a directory. An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD is the exit status of the last command that executes. If the The application construct is used to include application- history Enable command history, as described above under ignored. popd [-n] [+n] [-n] Appending Standard Output and Standard Error one or more newlines, and may be followed by a newline in place of a immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is been accessed since the last time it was checked, the causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ command. -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues [...] Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of locale) as the character c. signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit unset. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are command. expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic UMNS. The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any metic expansion, command substitution, and process substitution. Toggle overwrite mode. With an explicit positive numeric argu‐ executes the exit builtin command, bash reads and executes commands \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name | bitwise OR parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic
