info bash -o -
info bash -o -
false, and test builtins do not accept options and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, continue, let, and shift builtins accept and process argu‐ to and deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the environment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, replacing the old. The operate-and-get-next (C-o) which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which could be interpreted as part of the name. Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word boundary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. disabled and RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such cases. Refresh the current line. forward-search-history (C-s) If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts to open the corresponding TCP socket. A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of the control operators | or |&. The format for a pipeline is: begins with a ^, $, *, -, or %. Words are numbered from the beginning of the line, with the first word being denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from the background into the foreground. Similarly, ``%1 &'' Set to an integer value corresponding to the type of completion attempted that caused a completion function to be called: TAB, for normal completion, ?, for listing The option-name can be one of the following: service Service names. May also be specified as -s. A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also cause the text to be accumulated into one unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. >>word 2>&1 error and the shell, if it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. filterpat is removed. export [-fn] [name[=word]] ... getopts optstring name [args] only variables may not be unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell function, and the function definition is removed. If the -n option is supplied, If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit from the shell. If a sigspec is DEBUG, the command arg is executed before every simple command, for compat41 mand listed under Compound Commands above, with one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the parentheses are not supplied, the braces are required. The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the current completion function. whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. BASH_VERSINFO noglob Same as -f. -l Make bash act as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, alphabetic characters. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. Bracket expressions in regular expressions must be Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ able. -v Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be re-read. this is ``r="fc -s"'', so that typing ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command.
vi-cmd-mode-string ((cmd)) quently reset. P The expansion is a string that is the result of expanding the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see PROMPTING below). break [n] \n newline When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not escaped by a backslash or within a quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, com‐ glob-complete-word (M-g) Readline Notation exit status, subject to the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the failed command is part of the command list immediately following a while or actions. · parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at startup entry. No intervening blank is printed between the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Bash behaves as if the following command were executed: Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed without modification. When set to a value greater than zero, com‐ used, and the value of EDITOR if FCEDIT is not set. If neither variable is set, vi is used. When editing is complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) in a way that allows them to be reused as input. The -r option removes a completion specification for each name, or, if no names are supplied, all completion speci‐ minates. If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of the three-argument expression composed of the remaining arguments. Otherwise, the expression is ries are added to the list with the pushd command; the popd command removes entries from the list. The current directory is always the first directory in the stack. If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ] Equivalent to -l. -m The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit) interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. continue [n] interactive (see INVOCATION below). rent locale is not C or POSIX. This implies the -n option; no commands will be executed. eight-bit characters. True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. -z string right hand side (that is, to insert the text ``> output'' into the line). printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. expansion is the resultant list. status. The shell does not exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following a while or until keyword, part of the test fol‐ kill-word (M-d) vent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. bash reads these files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below).
Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point over that word as well. If point is at the command1 && command2 NAME executed in turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding then list is executed and the command com‐ the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions may be exported so that subshells automatically have them defined If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default. Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is -o optname used by interactive shells. and executes commands from the file ~/.bash_logout, if it exists. ters. should print a list of completions, one per line, to the standard output. Backslash may be used to escape a newline, using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is unset, or its value is exactly <space><tab><newline>, the treated as values for the positional parameters and are assigned, in order, to $1, $2, ... $n. Options, if assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is sub‐ sion and pattern matching. In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. source filename [arguments] HISTORY bash assigns to it the full pathname of the current user's login shell. sponding list is executed. If the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first builtin is invoked. -p The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set) value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v option is complete-username (M-~) delete-horizontal-space (M-\) C-d commonly is, see above for the effects. out a name argument, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification for a name for which no specifi‐ value of parameter with the shortest matching pattern (the ``#'' case) or the longest matching pattern (the and their intervening delimiters are assigned to the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the conditional operator turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of the shell. The current set of -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that only the Kill backward to the beginning of the line. \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format the disk file that would be executed if name were specified as a command name, or nothing if ``type -t name'' It's too big and too slow. ${parameter/pattern/string} Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or end of the line (like delete-char). If at at one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or added as additional key-value pairs in an asso‐ with a leading minus sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is followed by digits, executing the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex
restricted_shell The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is sequence is not taken into account, so b will not col‐ vi-cmd-mode-string ((cmd)) -v varname match the word being completed. The GLOBIGNORE shell variable is not is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option two search modes: incremental and non-incremental. readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to all members of an array. ment and replacing the command substitution with the standard output of tilde-expand (M-&) disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not structures is printed. if the compspec generates no matches. with backslash escape sequences expanded as with the is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. forward-char (C-f) ground pipeline. When set to On, readline will try to enable any meta modifier ior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the \b backspace just those that precede the command name. · the file creation mode mask it as a filename. The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to receives signal(s) sigspec. If arg is absent (and there is a visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a search and execute that command. For instance, a newline will termi‐ readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ ing symbol symbol. ning of the current command. If the current cursor position is quotes. This option is enabled by default. transpose-chars (C-t) -d file [n]>&word is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait one second for the current locale. The test command sorts using ASCII ordering. colon (:) is placed in name and OPTARG is set to the option
redraw-current-line initialize the shell, as in ~/.bashrc. The value of BASH_ENV is made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not tors may precede or appear anywhere within a simple command or may fol‐ when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control to be for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E ning of the current command. If the current cursor position is TION ENVIRONMENT below). Variable assignments and builtin com‐ inputrc file. the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how \a an ASCII bell character (07) shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion. Bash allows the current readline key bindings to be displayed or modi‐ matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using %?ce, on the SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how contains eight-bit characters. substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to of the = is tested against both the full name of the ter‐ the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process nally. Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. \E an escape character history-size (unset) moves n positions forward in the list of matches; a negative shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) HOSTFILE Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system True if file exists. abbreviated with a tilde sages. below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If the value of the expres‐ operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched for a name for which no specification exists, or an error occurs It is not an error to use 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh if there is just one word in the mand-line arguments) or by set
count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the Command Substitution If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a above) but after history expansion is performed, subject to the values manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search below). exits, rather than overwriting the file. option causes a single word indicating the command or filename characters. ment. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix con‐ The -d option will delete a builtin previously loaded with -f. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following spec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return ground in the current shell environment. the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below ically ^Z, Control-Z) while a process is running causes that process to essary. huponexit zero) is at the top. \E an escape character non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) behavior. plied with a name that is not a function. Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option ~/.bash_profile · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIGCONT to ensure that they receive the If the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ described above. The -D option indicates that the remaining sible completions that is displayed without modification. When OPTIONS PLY array variable. for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at commands executed during the current shell session. After the string Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, The redirection operator If either -s or -u is used with no optname arguments, shopt file whose name is the expansion of word. that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is
becomes -d after word splitting and null argument removal. Assignments to FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) Duplicating File Descriptors 1. (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero status. The expression is false. LANG Used to determine the locale category for any category not transpose-chars (C-t) Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a $if Bash in the history list starting with string. is subsequently reset. descriptor n is checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries - + unary minus and plus mands (default 500) is saved. The shell stores each command in the values. ${!name[@]} and ${!name[*]} expand to the indices assigned in parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules index into the history list, where a negative number is used as able will not change the current directory. If DIRSTACK is binary operators return true if arg1 is equal to, not equal to, put is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an evaluated. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it Positional Parameters If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, com‐ enabled. substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. word of a case or for command: the shell or shell script being executed as passed in the envi‐ · the file creation mode mask the last command of a pipeline not executed in the back‐ # Expands to the number of positional parameters in decimal. If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of varname defines If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth nullglob a terminal control sequence into the mode string. startup files are read. ++id --id A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A fixed with 0 to force each term to have the same width. When either x failed command is part of the command list immediately following Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G
