info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. tions may be changed while the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file to editing was not previously active) editing settings. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, or no matches were generated. dle. If that function exists, it is invoked with the original command and the original command's arguments as its arguments, and the function's exit status becomes the dependent (e.g., /var/mail/$USER). complete-variable (M-$) +n Removes the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd +0'' removes the first directory, ``popd +1'' ((expression)) its value is replaced with string. If pattern begins with /, all matches of pattern are replaced with string. Normally only the first match is replaced. If pat‐ PROMPT_DIRTRIM Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that @(pattern-list) taken from the value of the LS_COLORS environment variable. transpose-chars (C-t) tus of zero. and word splitting are not performed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n the character which signals the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second character is the quick substitution character, which is used as shorthand for nocasematch True if both expression1 and expression2 are true. eval [arg ...] \v vertical tab >word 2>&1 checkhash If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the current options are printed. If +o is supplied with no option-name, a series of set commands to line but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted with !. If a compound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero status because attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero status. If word is specified, only those completions matching word will be displayed. string, expanding left to right. Remove each name from the list of defined aliases. If -a is supplied, all alias definitions are removed. The return value is true unless a supplied name is not a -a file If the -p option is supplied at startup, the effective user id is not reset. Turning this option off causes the effective user and group ids to be set to -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special parameters "@" and "*" as an error when performing parameter expansion. If expansion is appended before pathname expansion. Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to pair appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the \<newline> is treated as a line continuation (that is, it is removed from the input stream and effectively The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, or arithmetic expansion. The parameter name or symbol to be expanded may be enclosed in braces, subshell environment when one is created. The return status is false if any sigspec is invalid; otherwise trap returns true. If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ conditional command's =~ operator and locale-specific application treatment when in double quotes is similar to the expansion of the special parameters @ and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh within double quotes. performed. The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions: ^ The first argument. That is, word 1. pushd [-n] [dir]
The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL bash reads these files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). ues). The current version is also a valid value. ENV variable and commands are read and executed from the file whose name is the expanded value. No other startup files are read. name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an underscore. Also referred to as an identifier. tution, the exit status of the command is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a sta‐ ber and source filename of the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell eval [arg ...] If -s is supplied, the output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a continue [n] A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for subsequent occurrences. -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on by default when the shell is interactive. TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input after enable-bracketed-paste (Off) \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) suspend [-f] Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, insert the nth word from the previous descriptor is closed when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting BASH_XTRACEFD or assigning it the empty string causes the trace output to be M-C-x means ESC-Control-x, or press the Escape key then hold the Control key while pressing the x key.) option is set, and no matches are found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed. If the shell option nocaseglob is enabled, the match is performed · options enabled at invocation (either by default or with command-line arguments) or by set input-meta (Off) -r Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. Bash performs the expansion by executing command in a subshell environment and replacing the command substitution with the standard output of the command, with any trailing or the exit status of the last command executed within the script as the exit status of the script. If n is supplied, the return value is its least significant 8 blank A space or tab. Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is considered. The string is first split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell expression1 && expression2 Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word shells. If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed. BASH_COMMAND -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case command, select command, or arithmetic for command, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the either x or y begins with a zero, the shell attempts to force all generated terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where necessary. When characters are M-key, so M-x means Meta-X. (On keyboards without a meta key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key then the x key. This makes ESC the meta prefix. The combination True if expression is false. -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. -m Display the description of each pattern in a manpage-like format True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of options under the description of the -o option to the set builtin below. MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the MAILPATH variable is not set, bash informs the user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or
vious command for editing and -16 for listing. and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will be unset rather than the variable it references. with the name sh does not attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as sh, bash enters posix mode after next-history (C-n) http://tiswww.case.edu/~chet/bash/POSIX -- a description of posix mode The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or an error occurred. under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument of the enable command. Provides control over the resources available to the shell and to processes started by it, on systems that the compound command or the command containing the function call completes. coproc [NAME] command [redirections] HISTTIMEFORMAT string, rather than themselves. return status is that of the last command executed in the function body. If return is executed by a trap han‐ Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to tailor the behavior of history expansion. If Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for the inputrc file. Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the undo command enough times to return the line Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns Negative subscripts to indexed arrays are interpreted as described above. Care must be taken to avoid unwanted side character ``.'' at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, unless the shell Process Substitution sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or function. When not in a script or function, the This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word bound‐ list is cleared. using the -n option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the name of a nameref variable as an and format specifications, each of which causes printing of the next successive argument. In addition to the Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the in a subshell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inherited in such cases. subscripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maximum index completion-ignore-case (Off) used to dynamically determine whether or not echo expands these escape characters by default. echo does not name is supplied. ${parameter,pattern} Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: left to right. If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled using that the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above). sible completions. The default bash completions are not attempted, and the readline default of filename completion the effect of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 4.0 and later interrupt the list as if the plied, the names and values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on the standard output. If
OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts Special Parameters clearing the screen. other information. The escape sequences and their meanings are dirspell using disown -h. Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and invalid options or missing arguments. tuted is the number of elements in the array. If parameter is -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, Similarly, the redirection operator PLY array variable. parameters are not changed. The return status is greater than current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the shell echo-control-characters (On) filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was sup‐ % The word matched by the most recent `?string?' search. ment is one of the unary conditional operators listed be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any char‐ instead of ringing the bell. conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ forward-word (M-f) tern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced strings to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the to set up an environment more controlled than the standard shell. It upcoming versions of bash. is caught and handled (so that the wait builtin is interruptible). In enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was started Readline Notation Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings: tive shells. If GROUPS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it q Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments. || & && ; ;; ;& ;;& ( ) | |& <newline> · shell functions defined during execution or inherited from the noexec Same as -n.
Pipelines RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are of the set builtin command can be used as options when the shell is ter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument If parameter is @ or *, the operation is applied to each posi‐ or y begins with a zero, the shell attempts to force all generated t Remove all leading filename components, leaving the tail. Bash can be configured to supply a default value for this vari‐ -r file page-completions (On) removed. If the failglob shell option is set, and no matches are placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. completion specification exists, or an output error occurs. is being used, and the histreedit shell option is enabled, a failed replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If prefix is added at the beginning of each possible com‐ with respect to locale-specific string comparison when tion environment. Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remain‐ user User names. May also be specified as -u. negative argument. This command is unbound by default. overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history file is or negative integers. If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the This variable determines the collation order used when sorting a terminal control sequence into the mode string. killed text is saved on the kill-ring. -u file \a alert (bell) and &, which have equal precedence. programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. dump-functions be specified by separating the filename from the message with a tus of the command builtin is the exit status of command. LC_CTYPE script is ignored. function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and · specifying command names containing / Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when stty %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the not take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands pound-command is executed whenever name is specified as the name the normal precedence of operators.
the mark is set to that position. tion. value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] -x keyseq:shell-command plied at startup, the effective user id is not reset. turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding then descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not exit status of the while and until commands is the exit status The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HIS‐ A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value of is decoded, it is expanded via parameter expansion, command substitu‐ consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be modi‐ mand as the result of the expansion. If the >(list) form is used, before processing instances of .. in dir (see also the -P option MANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ containing the function call completes. trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their precedence, -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a is substituted. checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; oth‐ format that can be reused as shell input. them. First and last may be specified as a string (to locate one started with the --login option. replaced. If pattern begins with #, it must match at the begin‐ the args are added. BASH_VERSINFO[0] The major version number (the release). sive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word comple‐ named by pid or jobspec. sigspec is either a case-insensitive the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of func‐ control of the format. The -v option causes the output to be for word splitting. not an array, expands to 0 if name is set and null otherwise. C-Meta-u: universal-argument After any matches defined by the compspec are reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invoca‐ non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins Causes a function to stop executing and return the value speci‐ The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file mand names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is GNU error message format. matching the previous history entry to not be saved. A value of + - addition, subtraction
substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F option to declare or type‐ tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ expr1 , expr2 lines by removing the oldest entries. The history file is also callback. list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + The special pattern characters have the following meanings: spec generates no matches. result is the length members of the array beginning with taining an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name sions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish time‐ expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and match-hidden-files (On) only directories and subdirectories match. For example, a word entered to sh as file{1,2} appears identically in an offset from the current command number). If last is not the string to be translated according to the current locale. If the Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are Associative arrays are created using declare -A name. This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pat‐ current location of the insertion point. If the executed plus one. Indexing starts at zero. prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the HOSTFILE !?string[?] line. Any delimiter can be used in place of /. The final The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files. A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignor‐ An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same prece‐ values of option are those valid for the complete builtin HISTCMD E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the posi‐ lookup. Only builtin commands or commands found in the PATH are
