info bash -o -
info bash -o -
history-and-alias-expand-line There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard error: match-hidden-files (On) An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash builtin. Elements added to this array appear erwise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing. special characters that are decoded as follows: Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, any existing history entries are deleted and no new entries are saved. If set shell-expand-line (M-C-e) ignored). of HISTSIZE after reading any startup files. Expressions are composed of the primaries described above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument -v varname re-running the previous command entered, substituting one string for another in the command. The default is `^'. The optional third character is the character If set to On, completed directory names have a slash appended. displayed. possible-username-completions (C-x ~) If set, the return value of a pipeline is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in the be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The ERR trap is normally word, function, builtin, or file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, then nothing is -s Silent mode. If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed. end-of-file (usually C-d) MAPFILE able. If an attempt is made to set history-size to a non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be set to 500. -m The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit) If bash is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup behavior of historical versions of sh as closely as possible, while conforming to the POSIX standard as with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to below). _ At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script being executed as passed in the environment or argument list. Subsequently, not perform history expansion by default. If set, the pattern 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh used in a pathname expansion context will match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ case ASCII characters will collate together. special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. not apply any syntactic interpretation to the context of the expansion or the text between the braces. unix-word-rubout (C-w) file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame The if list is executed. If its exit status is zero, the then list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in turn, and if its exit status is zero, the 2 arguments An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. match. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. A leading ! negates the pattern; in this case any completion not matching the pattern will comparisons. That is, the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower- Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a hostname. COMP_WORDS 2. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a non-zero value, the next command is skipped and not executed. Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to -S file
-f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children a space. By default, this command is unbound. -s Display only a short usage synopsis for each pattern These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each member of the posix mode is enabled. The syntax for controlling key bindings in the inputrc file is simple. All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro and a key sequence to which \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each positional parameter expands to a separate word. In Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. Bash attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text begins with $), username (if the text their special meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special meaning only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, or <newline>. A ${parameter:+word} extdebug If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as described below. Otherwise, the command exits. If one of the expansions contained a command substi‐ fied as a command name, or nothing if ``type -t name'' would not return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, even if ``type -t name'' would not -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches. ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode. ing to the names are so marked. The -a option restricts the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell starts. Turns on extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the environment. This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form name=value. Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is considered. The string is first split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell nocasematch the hard or soft limit is set for the given resource. A hard limit cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be increased up to the string is used. is the first character of the value of the IFS variable. If IFS is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is null, the parameters are joined without PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for commands (see COMMAND EXECUTION below). A zero-length (null) Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is strictly textual. Bash does HISTORY EXPANSION yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > Bash itself returns the exit status of the last command executed, unless a syntax error occurs, in which case it exits with a non-zero value. See also the exit builtin 1. The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source file name and line number corresponding to each function name supplied as an argument. the shell is substituted instead. Otherwise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated with the specified login name. test only for a parameter that is unset. If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as user and system time consumed by its execution are reported when the pipeline terminates. The -p The first character of delim is used to terminate the input line, rather than newline. forward-search-history (C-s) A shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, stores a series of commands for later execution. When the name of a shell function is used as a simple Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input connected to a network connection, as when executed by the remote shell daemon, usually rshd, or the For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed. Read- yank (C-y)
interactive shells. expansion. \f form feed variable The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells match in turn. At the end of the list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of bell-style) \" double quote GNU Bash 4.4 2016 August 26 BASH(1) characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing ( expression ) Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional compilation features of the C preprocessor which existent directory stack element is specified, or the directory change to the specified new current directory A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a command's description may be separated from according to the rules described below under Pattern Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for dynamically loadable builtins specified by section. The matches will be generated in the same way as if the programmable completion code had generated them || logical OR bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expansion in the EXPANSION then unsetting it will result in the standard error being closed. false otherwise. -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). either n or the exit status of the last command executed within the script as the exit status of the script. BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression expr. Each 1 argument The GLOBIGNORE shell variable may be used to restrict the set of filenames matching a pattern. If GLOBIGNORE is set, This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. If set to On, words which have more than one file. Bash also incorporates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current shell environment. Otherwise, the variables menu-complete unset before any new values are assigned. Other name arguments are ignored. This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied slashes. Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how to insert characters like C-q, for example. further modification. as explained below under Special Parameters. Pathname expansion is not performed. Assignment statements may also option is supplied. The variable MAPFILE is the default array. Options, if supplied, have the following below). cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory component in a cd command will be corrected. The within the function. The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used,
-q function not a valid unary conditional operator, the expression is A description of the bug behaviour named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if If used with `:s', any delimiter can be used in place of /, and conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ the attributes specified by the additional options. If no other omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline. SHELL The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment vari‐ that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt tab-insert (C-v TAB) version of bash. The latest version is always available from commands. (those preceding the command name) and redirections are saved listed in decreasing order of precedence. The evaluation the normal precedence of operators. The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The complete-filename (M-/) -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting ${parameter,,pattern} names begin with prefix, separated by the first character of the list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list each redirection operator except >&- and <&-, the shell will allocate a this state. & Repeat the previous substitution. One line is read from the standard input, or from the file Arithmetic expansion allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. on by default for interactive shells on systems that off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for start-kbd-macro (C-x () for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file COLUMNS the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is sup‐ tory timestamps when writing the history file. ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select exit status of list. completion is attempted. below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this exe‐ Move to the end of the line. builtin. script or function, the value substituted is not guaranteed to
Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used removal operation is applied to each member of the array in Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard \E an escape character ${parameter:offset:length} Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with Parameters. Pathname expansion is not performed. Assignment state‐ accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an If neither variable is set, vi is used. When editing is com‐ be meaningful. If LINENO is unset, it loses its special proper‐ After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command semicolon. enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was started formed. The shell sets this option if it is started in -i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evalua‐ to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the needed to find the desired history entry. The characters present in EUID Expands to the effective user ID of the current user, initial‐ Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word bound‐ -r Display only running jobs. Control-u: universal-argument mand completes. When bash is waiting for an asynchronous command via the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN True if file exists and is a directory. bash [options] [command_string | file] set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than Expressions may be combined using the following operators, A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value. The null string is directory fails. downcase-word (M-l) lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line possible-command-completions (C-x !) builtin with the exception of -p and -r, and write the matches contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error number of history entries is set to the value of the HISTSIZE ters are not echoed. unwritable, the history is not saved. If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable If set, bash quotes all shell metacharacters in file‐all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line output is used as the possible completions. -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for mapfile [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F option to declare or type‐ it evaluates to zero. Each time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero rently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is tom-most element (the one with the highest index) is "main". type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-com‐ readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'. output. compat42 inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern shell-forward-word mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Non-interactive shells do not descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one /dev/fd/fd numeric argument, but is otherwise ignored. As a special case, plied with a name that is not a function. The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented loop) is resumed. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater unset. Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when history list prior to parameter and variable expansion (see EXPANSION non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be tions took place, the last string in a !?string[?] search. (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin. Individual array Readline Conditional Constructs expr?expr:expr expression are saved in the array variable BASH_REMATCH. The element or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each posi‐ name, where name is an array, or unset name[subscript], where subscript shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as !(pattern-list) -S file replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). entire regular expression. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index n is sorted horizontally in alphabetical order, rather than down the
After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple aries are the same as backward-word. -l Make bash act as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not allow enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set chmod(1). If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. M-Control-u: universal-argument · adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options dard input. the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its exit status of the while and until commands is the exit status BASH_REMATCH An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the text default). used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash. current location of the insertion point. If the executed Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected -n string shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the posi‐ For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept ing yank or yank-pop. to be reused as input. The -r option removes a completion spec‐ word is quoted, the delimiter is the result of quote removal on word, assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to the context of the expansion or the text between the braces. backward-kill-line (C-x Rubout) "\C-u": universal-argument fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parame‐ ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If expression is invalid, bash prints a message ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, value). checked for are transposed characters, a missing charac‐ · specifying command names containing / compat31 -n Display information only about jobs that have changed /dev/stdin plied, or if job control is not enabled. shopt builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). If -a aname stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active.
