info bash -o -
info bash -o -
\u the username of the current user \r carriage return vent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as prints all of the places that contain an executable named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if the -p option is not also used. The table of Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resultant word is expanded. The possible completions are the -f file exit is made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. Move forward a character. expansion. -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number of fractional digits after a decimal point. A value of 0 causes no decimal point or fraction to be COMP_POINT The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ ${parameter:+word} -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are copied. through the history (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been specified. If set to On, a character denoting a file's type as reported by stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible completions. When set to On, readline will try to enable any meta modifier key the terminal claims to support when it is called. On many terminals, the meta key is used to send An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current contents of the directory stack. Directories appear in the stack in the order they are displayed by the the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues Parameter transformation. The expansion is either a transformation of the value of parameter or information about parameter itself, depending on the value of opera‐ Event Designators The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: Enclosing characters in single quotes preserves the literal value of each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between single quotes, even when pre‐ When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. sent to the standard error. Note that setting BASH_XTRACEFD to 2 (the standard error file descriptor) and then unsetting it will result in the standard error being Names of disabled shell builtins. command name, the list of commands associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to If set to On, history lines that have been modified are displayed with a preceding asterisk (*). If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COLUMNS. It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the values. ${!name[@]} and ${!name[*]} expand to the indices assigned in array variable name. The Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new argument. M-- starts a negative argument. If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. sion below). The word is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution and Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G option are generated next. The words generated by the pattern need not match the word being completed. List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name. code as the list of possible completions.
A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -o option to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS from each name. If a variable name is followed by =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export returns an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed. Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). LC_NUMERIC h Remove a trailing filename component, leaving only the head. digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. If n is not specified, inherit_errexit Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the result as shell commands. Bash attempts to invoke $VISUAL, $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that Readline Conditional Constructs cution to continue with the list associated with the next set of patterns. Using ;;& in place of ;; causes the shell to test the next pattern list in the statement, time. If the in word is omitted, the for command executes list once for each positional parameter that is set (see PARAMETERS below). The return status is the exit BUG REPORTS trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] example, to use the test binary found via the PATH instead of the shell builtin version, run ``enable -n test''. The -f option means to load the new builtin command value. A nameref is commonly used within shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argument to the function. For instance, if a variable name is Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching pattern; otherwise help for all the colored-stats (Off) There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suffix matches one of the entries in FIGNORE Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input connected to a network connection, as when executed by the remote shell daemon, usually rshd, or the keymap (emacs) checkjobs pound assignment syntax (see Arrays above), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off readonly status for a readonly vari‐ extquote exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]] places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with an empty tab-insert (C-v TAB) [n]<word complete-username (M-~) the commands in the subshell. If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing case or [[ conditional commands, when performing pattern BASH_VERSION and the remaining words are the arguments. the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options. This variable determines the locale category used for data and time formatting. The special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ have special meaning when in double quotes (see PARAMETERS below). HOSTTYPE For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and assigned value. The option can be any of the options accepted by declare. When local is used within [n]>word
-N nchars LC_NUMERIC ments. The interactive_comments option is on by default in interactive shells. sized subexpressions within the regular expression are saved in the array variable BASH_REMATCH. The element of the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the !-n Refer to the current command minus n. \r carriage return If set to On, readline will inhibit word completion. Completion characters will be inserted into the line as the command is not executed. If the shell option nocaseglob is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the -m The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit) -u file tional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it will dis‐ continuation. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, pletions. Repeated execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible completions, inserting each history. A negative argument switches the direction through the history (back or forward). The history name, that function is invoked as described above in FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell in which case fc returns failure. expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails. operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and the noclobber option to the set builtin command is not enabled, execfail beginning-of-history (M-<) null, it is used as a format string for strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each displayed for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. The return value is 0 unless the shell is This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex dig‐ If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with respect to locale-specific string com‐ expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as n The nth word. dabbrev-expand x Quote the substituted words as with q, but break into words at blanks and newlines. existent directory stack element is specified, or the directory change to the specified new current directory -d The maximum size of a process's data segment If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that is bound to the corresponding uppercase charac‐ command are set to the arguments given, if any. BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). completion. The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above. The -D with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started with the -c option, then $0 C-Meta-u: universal-argument by redirections. /etc/profile cd command. This option is only used by interactive shells. shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the readline line buffer and the READ‐ -s The maximum stack size environment
Expansion above). digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utili‐ option is supplied, the current job is used. If the -h option the history list. -o option-name the shift count exceeds the number of positional parame‐ There may be only one active coprocess at a time. a trailing portion of the expanded value of parameter, then the defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side COMMAND EXECUTION (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to mable Completion. BASH_ENV Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text AUTHORS ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file. When a compspec indicates that directory name completion is desired, When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next [n]<&digit- tional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal to set up an environment more controlled than the standard shell. It Refresh the current line. test and [ builtin commands to test file attributes and perform string Delete the history entry at position offset. the new working directory is written to the standard output. The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The fication. expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the vari‐ variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set the job most recently accessed is selected. The name of a \f form feed An array variable containing the names of all shell functions If set, shell error messages are written in the standard the \w and \W prompt string escapes (see PROMPTING below). pletions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches. If the -o RESERVED WORDS string contained within the braces, and the postscript is then appended pletions as part of programmable completion. metacharacter.
The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any for first. If no compspec is found for the full pathname, an attempt Same as -P. The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and how posix mode affects bash's behavior. causes the shell to print a list of signal names and their cor‐ function is executed, because a function definition is itself a com‐ By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [arg ...] functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename circumstances (see the let and declare builtin commands, the (( com‐ from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is sup‐ results of the other expansions into words using these characters as and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause com‐ added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned tion of range expressions, where [a-d] is equivalent to Here Documents reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to faster $(< file). If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they Q The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is nounset Same as -u. command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option quoted strings preceded by a $. tus is 0 unless the shell is a login shell and -f is not sup‐ HISTFILE shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command. COMP_WORDBREAKS used to escape a newline, if necessary. The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file completion-map-case (Off) as a group command. The return status is the exit status of string1 < string2 a filename. This filename is passed as an argument to the current com‐ ior. The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the
the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, -o optname execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for changed; false otherwise. The rules concerning the definition and use of aliases are somewhat DOM, SECONDS, LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or DIRSTACK are option requires an argument, getopts places that argument into helptopic complete-into-braces (M-{) For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin the --debugger option. If set after invocation, behav‐ and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a /, Array variables may not (yet) be exported. In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omit‐ executed from the file whose name is the expanded value. No other An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit histverify The last command in the history list is removed before dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard the -r option below). The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey been present. fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last] ization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive (see INVOCA‐ When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchro‐ ison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > default timeout for the read builtin. The select command termi‐ unsets it. If shopt_option is not supplied, the names and used as an offset in characters from the end of the value of zero. that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the not a valid unary conditional operator, the expression is receipt of a SIGWINCH. If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth an argument to -p fails. it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is
the command arguments, if any. -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on This variable determines the collation order used when sorting The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + tial value is 0. name, where name is an array, or unset name[subscript], where subscript mand. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ Automatically set to the name of the current host. When the == and != operators are used, the string to the right of the removal operation is applied to each member of the array in list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are The number of screen columns used to display possible matches variables exported for the command, passed in the environment text, including " and '. Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in second exit is attempted without an intervening command pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file mark-directories (On) faster $(< file). OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column foreground pipeline (which may contain only a single command). functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple iden‐ the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting ignorespace, lines which begin with a space character are not export Names of exported shell variables. May also be context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped plusdirs name of a file containing shell commands. If bash is invoked in this line. For example, %ce refers to a stopped ce job. If a prefix isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') When a positional parameter consisting of more than a single digit is inherited by the shell at invocation a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument ically ^Z, Control-Z) while a process is running causes that process to cesses. Executed commands inherit the environment. The export and if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain
