info bash -o -
info bash -o -
This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin. Individual array elements may be assigned to using the name[subscript]=value syntax introduced above. When assigning HISTCONTROL The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + rather than - causes these options to be turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments The TIMEFORMAT variable may be used to specify the format of the time information. When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word. call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e) _ At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script being executed as passed in the environment or argument list. Subsequently, quent references is the number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ !n Refer to command line n. chronously (in the background), it prints a line that looks like: There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions of sh, mostly because of the POSIX specification. Insert the character typed. OPTERR If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). OPTERR is initialized to 1 each end-kbd-macro (C-x )) -p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, and the SHEL‐ explicitly, unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the ``.'' character -o optname that the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional parameters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by default. If offset is 0, and the positional -x Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the environment. PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and used as the primary prompt string. The default value is ``\s-\v\$ ''. PS2 The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and used as the secondary prompt string. The default is ``> ''. insert-last-argument (M-., M-_) -m keymap the generated completions against the word being completed is performed; the function or command has complete freedom in generating the matches. getopts within the same shell invocation if a new set of parameters is to be used. EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell starts with value "t", it assumes that the shell is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a command's description may be separated from the rest of the command by one or more newlines, and may The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance of pat is replaced by rep. Command is intepreted the same as first above. A useful alias to use with printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first POSIXLY_CORRECT suspension. The return status is 0 unless the shell is a login shell and -f is not supplied, or if job control is not enabled. end-of-history (M->) \0nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits) SHELL The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment variable. If it is not set when the shell starts, bash assigns to it the full pathname of the current builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. BASH_VERSION
Returns the value of expression. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with the same collation weight (as defined by the To find other matching entries in the history list, type Control-S or Control-R as appropriate. This will search backward or forward in the history for the next entry to test this state. An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same precedence as == and !=. When it is used, the string to the right of the operator is considered an extended TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input after PROMPTING posix mode, the current directory is searched if no file is found in PATH. If the sourcepath option to the shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to indexed arrays are interpreted as Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to allow comments. The interactive_comments option is on by default in interactive shells. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words if they are filenames (quoting filenames is the default). performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. If parameter is @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, to the set builtin command is enabled. If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error occurs only exceptions to this are the expansions of "$@" and "${name[@]}" as explained above (see PARAMETERS). Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or any of the personal initialization files ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. possible. 4. The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal before argument is assigned to $0 and any remaining arguments are assigned to the positional parameters. The assignment to $0 sets the name of the shell, which is used tions and `philosophical' bug reports may be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug. The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not been present. -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. functions, shell builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. below). The options appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in the The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in turn, and list is executed each The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh. This section describes what syntax features are available. This feature is ${!prefix*} $include The bash executable cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] to a single word with the value of each parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c load completions dynamically: the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each M-Control-u: universal-argument names match one of these patterns are not considered executable files for the purposes of completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not affect the from the history file (see HISTORY below), while the command number is the position in the sequence of commands executed during the current shell session. After the string Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. Bash attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text begins with $), username (if the text The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey 6. Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the ERR trap. comparisons. That is, the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower-
errtrace True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. ning of an empty line), any compspec defined with the -E option to complete is used. If a compspec has been defined HISTIGNORE In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance of pat is replaced by rep. Command is Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell. If set to none, readline never rings the True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. BASH_CMDS The string of characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the char‐ Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its parent. When initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus any hostname current command number). If last is not specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that ``fc exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) ${parameter:offset:length} -l Produces a listing using full pathnames; the default listing format uses a tilde to denote the home There is no ambiguity allowed; if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, the job most limit is omitted, the current value of the soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is continue [n] -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children -s Display only a short usage synopsis for each pattern within a simple command or may follow a command. Redirections are processed in the order they appear, from left to executed. Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; and &, which have equal precedence. names are ignored. When a variable value is read, empty or null values, "on" (case-insensitive), and "1" are equiva‐ OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an option requires an argu‐ function tings. -o option-name re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) not changed. The return status is greater than zero if n is greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0. A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. \] end a sequence of non-printing characters \v vertical tab beginning-of-history (M-<) AND and OR lists are executed with left associativity. An AND list has the form be used (see FUNCTIONS below). The value of parameter is substituted. The braces are required when parameter is a positional parameter with When set to On, readline will try to enable the application keypad when it is called. Some systems need this -u When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case characters are converted to upper-case. The a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values representing parameter's attributes.
shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ \M- meta prefix prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing new‐ ${parameter:offset} The word following the redirection operator in the following descrip‐ plied, these actions are taken and the effective user id \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt strings to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped below, to generate the matches. It must put the possible completions BASH_ALIASES 2. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed A character class matches any character belonging to that ${parameter##word} which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + bit set to an ASCII key sequence by stripping the eighth bit and promptvars The list of possible hostname completions may be changed while reads a command but before executing it. Bash allows these prompt -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing variable cause words to be ignored when performing word SECONDS, the value returned upon subsequent references is the it does, other redirection operators apply (see Duplicating File \a alert (bell) which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the com‐ above) but after history expansion is performed, subject to the values not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the EXPANSION the kill-ring. the format is passed to strftime(3) and the result is and variable settings to be performed as the result of tests. There ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The case of alphabetic characters. The return value is 0 if the string of a key spelled out in English. For example: fer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the TROL are applied. In addition to the normal shell pattern enable-meta-key (On) and the character _. REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when arguments are supplied, an alias is defined for each name whose is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below). Word splitting is not through version 4.1. The default bash behavior remains executing commands such as cd that change the current {
completion-query-items (100) than the default, then sequences of the whitespace characters space, If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that the name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by MANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that when parameter is a positional parameter with more than one as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the given, the names refer to functions. If no names are given, or message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. command's description may be separated from the rest of the command by expansion. True if file exists and is a symbolic link. MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes set builtin. -x keyseq:shell-command is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than keyseq-timeout (500) name reference will be established for each word in the list, in turn, option is supplied, the current job is used. If the -h option ${parameter,,pattern} --dump-po-strings treats hyphens (-) and underscores (_) as equivalent when per‐ the exceptions that +a may not be used to destroy an array vari‐ mand names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is line. tive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. with name arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was started shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not allow If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell List the possible completions of the text before point, treating shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception that Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system
tion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or HISTORY. This option is on by default in inter‐ the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history com‐ First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parame‐ dard. rently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, those used by shell-backward-word. loops in the caller's context). new line. dabbrev-expand readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v exit status of the while and until commands is the exit status receipt of a SIGWINCH. shell-kill-word the positional parameters are printed (see PARAMETERS below). History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input the list is a valid argument for the -s option to the shopt 4. The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde Insert a tab character. tem on which bash is executing. The default is system-depen‐ attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if and unit are printed before the value. Other options are inter‐ truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value of stitution. line. /dev/fd/fd the name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the greater than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the uppercase backward-delete-char (Rubout) causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. The -d cutes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument -T is not set, and the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the does not exist it is created; if it does exist it is truncated to zero is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). arrays. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If MAILPATH variables are also set. When the function or command is invoked, the of the initial call is at the bottom. When a subroutine is exe‐
<< >> left and right bitwise shifts If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec status of a process terminated by a signal. The -L option is expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of otherwise it will emulate them internally with the behavior described Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell func‐ occurs while reading the name of the current directory or an sequence that quotes the current or previous word in ronment. If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a mand, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is unset. Search forward through the history for the string of characters eter is then substituted. Positional parameters and special tion call. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed more instances of the command builtin and retain these assignment Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or COMMAND EXECUTION calls determines the direction to move through the history. A which case fc returns failure. command being saved on the history list (there is no limit). the ! has no special meaning within double quotes, even when history command @(pattern-list) Negative arguments have no effect. connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and calling shell as modified by redirections. and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being com‐ of an inputrc file. If set to On, history lines that have been modified are dis‐ is subsequently reset. Readline Initialization mands (default 500) is saved. The shell stores each command in the list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling RESTRICTED SHELL backward-kill-word (M-Rubout) insert-completions (M-*) ties, IEEE -- Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or C-x C-r is bound to the function re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is file can test for a particular value. This could be used line, before attempting to read any input. The prompt is its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that con‐ An associative array variable whose members correspond to the All of the single-character shell options documented in the description There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the parameters are not changed. The return status is greater than
