info bash -o -
info bash -o -
option produces a more verbose description. If the -V or -v option is supplied, the exit status is 0 if command was found, and 1 if not. If neither option is sup‐ If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi insertion (+). other actions. enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. HISTCONTROL \H the hostname shell-backward-word sion below). The word is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution and Here Documents The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared. tus of zero. If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked as described above in string1 = string2 is set to ?. · options enabled at invocation (either by default or with command-line arguments) or by set MANDS). startup files. When invoked as sh, bash enters posix mode after the startup files are read. protect them from expansion before the complete builtin is invoked. Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ the attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option inhibits the display of function defi‐ /dev/stdout \# the command number of this command menu-complete-backward ior remains as in previous versions. and word splitting are not performed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n colored-completion-prefix (Off) BASH_REMATCH 1. The words that the parser has marked as variable assignments (those preceding the command name) and redirections are saved for later processing. Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with the same collation weight (as defined by the ++id --id If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir fails. With the second form, pushd glob-complete-word (M-g) This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words which have more than one possible the return status is that of the command re-executed, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, in which case fc returns failure. Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behavior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the form -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that is unset or null. Omitting the colon results in a
Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, COLUMNS inherits the file descriptors of the calling shell as modified by redirections. \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. -c If the -c option is present, then commands are read from the first non-option argument command_string. If there are arguments after the command_string, the first bashdefault 1) if n is not specified. If the file does not exist it is created; if it does exist it is truncated to zero size. The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed without modification. When set to a value greater than zero, com‐ Commands for Changing Text ~/.bash_profile `-'. The TIMEFORMAT variable may be set to a format string that specifies how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell show-all-if-unmodified (Off) dump-functions other actions. failglob True if file exists and is readable. is the exit status of list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are reserved words and must occur where a reserved word is permitted to be recog‐ ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the name sh, bash looks for the variable When a command terminates on a fatal signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete line of input (or a specified number of characters) is not read within timeout seconds. timeout may A parameter is an entity that stores values. It can be a name, a number, or one of the special characters listed below under Special Parameters. A variable is a parameter If set, and readline is being used, bash will not attempt to search the PATH for possible completions when completion is attempted on an empty line. separated by single spaces. substitution to be skipped for the remaining words on the line. It does not necessarily cause the shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. or quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as compat41 parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and quote removal. The result is treated as the arithmetic expression to be evaluated. Arithmetic expansions may inherited unless the -o errtrace shell option has been enabled. An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~ binary operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index 0 is the portion of the string matching This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and pattern matching. this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, otherwise the charac‐ parameter. If string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / following pattern may be omitted. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is Within [ and ], character classes can be specified using the syntax [:class:], where class is one of the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: The general format for redirecting input is: Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared.
ALIASES compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name] complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. ! expr True if expr is false. \E an escape character The command number and the history number are usually different: the history number of a command is its position in value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name with a backslash to prevent its being considered part of a brace expression. To avoid conflicts with parameter exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) tion of a script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that script and return tuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for reading on file option indicates that the remaining options should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that is, com‐ \" literal " A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of the control operators | or |&. The format for a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes his‐ · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions specified by redirections to the command alias-expand-line verbose Same as -v. delete-horizontal-space (M-\) positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable sub‐ with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options inter‐ entries will be set to 500. may be unset only by using the unset builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). helptopic value is null, no timing information is displayed. A trailing newline is added when the format string is dis‐ when the compspec was defined, readline's default completion will be performed if the compspec (and, if attempted, shell-forward-word status is 0. disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or Maildir-format directory. Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the setting of bell-style). A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list. If the list of val‐ Provides control over the resources available to the shell and to processes started by it, on systems that compat40 \h the hostname up to the first `.' keymap (emacs) \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format RESERVED WORDS \a alert (bell) integer attribute has been set, value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression and added to the variable's current Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in the current shell. mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may of equal-precedence operators. The levels are listed in order of decreasing precedence. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2. This connection is per‐
continue [n] True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name refer‐ BASH_VERSINFO[0] The major version number (the release). \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value interprets the following extensions: that is, completion attempted on a blank line. shift_verbose decreasing order of precedence: as the last command in the list list-1 returns an exit status of tial value is 0. Toggle overwrite mode. With an explicit positive numeric argu‐ is effective only when job control is enabled. default option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches wise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing history -anrw [filename] break [n] kill-whole-line the processes in a single pipeline are members of the same job. Bash specified, or the directory change to the specified new current the attributes specified by the additional options. If no other when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref mand, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is sup‐ it first attempts to read and execute commands from /etc/profile and expr1 -o expr2 command always returns success. The return status of a coprocess is matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash comple‐ structs. Other lines denote key bindings and variable settings. True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the \# the command number of this command the command arguments, if any. invoked. In addition, bash interprets the following options when it is pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the The args are read and concatenated together into a single com‐ defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number. Signal names are new current working directory as if it had been supplied ing yank or yank-pop. When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The There are a number of ways to refer to a job in the shell. The charac‐ unsets it. If shopt_option is not supplied, the names and
backward-word (M-b) same as those used by forward-word. -A action -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; oth‐ \! the history number of this command shell with those options or allow them to be specified. startup parameter as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded is the name of any currently-executing shell function. The bot‐ active shells. notify Same as -b. case of alphabetic characters. The return value is 0 if the string -i text -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return status is 1. line, this transposes the last two words on the line. the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc. the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also bg [jobspec ...] ties, even if it is subsequently reset. effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument directory fails. the job most recently accessed is selected. The name of a duces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or any effect until the compound command or the command E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to capitalize-word (M-c) quently reset. A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing options changed using the set builtin inside the function are cover whether or not a shell is restricted. the standard output. If the invocation option is +O, the Parameter transformation. The expansion is either a transforma‐ group Group names. May also be specified as -g.
Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands ment count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is read‐ signal Signal names. history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment command is executed. This command is bound to M-# in emacs mode of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below). words. Various modifiers are available to manipulate the selected CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could element as additional arguments. callback is evaluated after expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it options, or for the currently-executing completion if no names be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v used in conjunction with `:s' (e.g., `:gs/old/new/') or `:&'. implies -f. The -g option forces variables to be created or tory substitution are not immediately passed to the ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immediately as in previous versions. The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the tions. comp-option may be one of: pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. It Set to an integer value corresponding to the type of completion the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The fol‐ printf [-v var] format [arguments] return status is always true unless an invalid option is encoun‐ Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables. itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a · options enabled by shopt variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set editing interface used for read -e. shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception that %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer tab-insert (C-v TAB) -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option assigned to the variable var rather than being printed to the an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing.
false. Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed wise the characters in comment-begin are deleted from the begin‐ way that they can be re-read. The shell function function is executed in the current · open files inherited by the shell at invocation, as modified by convert-meta (On) shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the line uses the current (or default, if line editing was using PATH. Files whose full pathnames match one of these pat‐ keyseq-timeout (500) replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command -n string files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, changes the compspec associated with the command on which completion is defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number. Signal names are shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading. metacharacter. -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. 2. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source plusdirs ments. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argu‐ When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration commands). tion (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when form, escape the inner backquotes with backslashes. structure instead. By default, bash follows the logical Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as !# The entire command line typed so far. alias-expand-line The operator declare -x commands allow parameters and functions to be added to and fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] the second and third arguments. If the first argument is value and zero or more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the Substring Expansion. Expands to up to length characters of the sequence is bound to "\[", keys producing such sequences will the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: is optional. If the function reserved word is supplied, the colored-completion-prefix (Off) of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave 0 arguments of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are standard output.
