info bash -o -
info bash -o -
string is used. An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in Insert the last argument to the previous command (the last word of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave exactly like yank-nth-arg. Succes‐ Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off (without regard to case). Unrecognized variable names are ignored. When a variable value is read, If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic Brace expansion introduces a slight incompatibility with historical versions of sh. sh does not treat opening or closing braces specially when they appear as part of a to and deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the environment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, replacing the old. The be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are simply listed on the terminal. ! ~ logical and bitwise negation -w file dabbrev-expand (including arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are referenced using arbitrary strings. Unless otherwise noted, indexed array indices must be expression1 && expression2 \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the prompt Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, if the user so specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. Background processes which attempt to read from the value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name of the variable referenced by parameter instead of A double-quoted string preceded by a dollar sign ($"string") will cause the string to be translated according to the current locale. If the current locale is C or POSIX, contexts where it is performed, those words are subject to further word splitting and pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, it expands · options enabled at invocation (either by default or with command-line arguments) or by set If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by tern begins with #, it must match at the beginning of the expanded value of parameter. If pattern begins with %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of than that number of lines by removing the oldest entries. The history file is also truncated to this size after writing it when a shell exits. If the value is 0, (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant description of history expansion. = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= separated by single spaces. load completions dynamically: SECONDS dependent (e.g., /var/mail/$USER). \# the command number of this command appended to the history file. -c file upcase-word (M-u) The -s option to the history builtin may be used to add commands to the end of the history list without actually executing them, so that they are available for subsequent -p prompt Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows commands' file handles to be -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are copied. introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline string, expanding left to right. dependent. Quote Removal Readline Notation -P prefix A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments followed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a control operator. The first word
said to be in the foreground. Background processes are those whose process group ID differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-generated signals. COMP_LINE is set to ?. name=[value] established before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell commands and redirections than zero result in every command being saved on the history list (there is no limit). The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any startup files. Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. The syntax for controlling key bindings in the inputrc file is simple. All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro and a key sequence to which operators (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue with the next command in the list after READLINE_POINT --restricted extquote string is used. horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the vari‐ characters is also treated as a delimiter. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each positional parameter expands to a separate word. In If set, the value is executed as a command prior to issuing each primary prompt. Readline Notation disable-completion (Off) helptopic A non-quoted backslash (\) is the escape character. It preserves the literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of <newline>. If a \<newline> variable pre-increment and pre-decrement Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. LINE_LINE or READLINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the editing state. transpose-chars (C-t) Insert a tab character. List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name. \r carriage return After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters appears, then the word is regarded forward-word (M-f) command as it would appear in .inputrc, but each binding or command must be passed as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file'. Options, if sup‐ name () compound-command [redirection] Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE -- FIGNORE If set to On, the history code attempts to place point at the same location on each history line retrieved with previous-history or next-history. If set to On, and completion-ignore-case is enabled, readline treats hyphens (-) and underscores (_) as equivalent when performing case-insensitive filename matching used. If the -h option is given, each jobspec is not removed from the table, but is marked so that SIGHUP is not sent to the job if the shell receives a SIGHUP. If
If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing default, which is the default bash behavior in versions through 4.2. Tell readline that the compspec generates filenames, so it can perform any filename-specific complete_fullquote supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation If no commands are executed, the exit status is 0. An attempt is first made to open the file in the current direc‐ sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains tildes). the -f option is given, the names refer to functions. If no names are given, or if the -p option is supplied, with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options inter‐ taining delimiter. This allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural fashion. current terminal process group ID. Members of this process group (processes whose process group ID is equal to the unix-word-rubout (C-w) considered binary operators when there are three arguments. If the first argument is !, the value is are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other option argu‐ Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new top of the stack the True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. BASH_SUBSHELL If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment. A redirect‐ reset. in this way. shell-backward-kill-word A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see READLINE below). A Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, tory. If unset, the command history is not saved when a shell exits. A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a semicolon to delimit commands. word completion even if the ignored words are the only possible completions. See SHELL VARIABLES case may be included, depending on the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept in a file corresponding to the name of the it is unquoted: space, tab, newline, carriage return, and =. If the extglob shell option is enabled, ( will also metacharacter-separated words surrounded by quotes are considered one word. History expansions are introduced by the when completion is attempted on an empty line. of the expression is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return status is 1. This is exactly revert-line (M-r) gram in a separate execution environment. Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remaining arguments to the \a an ASCII bell character (07) -a Each variable or function that is created or modified is given the export attribute and marked for · specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the -p option to the hash builtin command appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration com‐ The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index subscript. If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the test and [ builtin commands to test file begins.
process list is run asynchronously, and its input or output appears as The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, \b backspace ments. If the format requires more arguments than are supplied, filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index one of the displayed words, then the value of name is set to currently in the execution call stack. The element with index 0 copied. readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is sup‐ Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard locale and the values of the LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell command always returns success. The return status of a coprocess is may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed cdable_vars this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment value. See also the exit builtin command below. arg1 OP arg2 to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command. · changing directories with cd word is quoted, the delimiter is the result of quote removal on word, variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which Without options, remove each jobspec from the table of active the mark is set to that position. horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) stitution. When using the $(command) form, all characters between the the args are added. script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop \' literal ' plied as the argument to -u. Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF tern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced dent. that will enable it to insert each paste into the editing buffer of the set builtin command can be used as options when the shell is used. The -P option causes cd to use the physical directory command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit nolog Currently ignored.
dump-functions File descriptor 0 is duplicated. mark-directories). -i The maximum number of pending signals unset. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell or POSIX. This implies the -n option; no commands will be service Service names. May also be specified as -s. performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi strings they output. If a numeric argument is supplied, the ment. returns immediately, without trying to read any data. -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory show-all-if-ambiguous (Off) line. When the search is terminated, the history entry containing the matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash comple‐ The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, expanded value. shell option nullglob is not enabled, the word is left unchanged. If if they are filenames (quoting filenames is the · importing function definitions from the shell environment at -f filename each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n) time formatting. name=value. bered commands is printed. The return status is true unless a If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double pleted on the current command line. No filtering of the generated com‐ elif reserved words, part of any command executed in a Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to sequences: sists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inher‐ then the x key. This makes ESC the meta prefix. The combination M-C-x If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is $include \UHHHHHHHH ing mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file cur‐ Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces nous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate
Move to the first line in the history. The two or three characters which control history expansion and BASH_LINENO Array variable names. When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash the line is read but before the array element is assigned. noclobber are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the operators listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching list. The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE variables may be set to cause the tial value is 0. unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...] jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ] A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail. The shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-gen‐ only those completions matching word will be displayed. current source until a line containing only delimiter (with no trailing character is the quick substitution character, which is used as ignored by interactive shells. expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder hashall Same as -h. tive shells. Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line. TION ENVIRONMENT below). Variable assignments and builtin com‐ it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer escaping backslash is discarded when matching. The special pattern builtin shell-builtin [arguments] executes command passing it args, returning its exit status. the new working directory is written to the standard output. If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the environment and return the exit status of the last command exe‐ notify Same as -b. PROMPTING glob-complete-word (M-g) sigspec is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes. in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches -t fd True if file descriptor fd is open and refers to a terminal. parentheses make up the command; none are treated specially. BASH_ARGV above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is
type [-aftpP] name [name ...] to chet.ramey@case.edu. attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is The last command in the history list is removed before This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer executed in a subshell environment. Changes made to the subshell envi‐ Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to before processing instances of .. in dir (see also the -P option yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) executable bit set, but are not executable files. The pattern given, the names refer to functions. If no names are given, or the -f option to the export builtin. A function definition may be tus. last. Without options, the name and value of each shell variable are Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or printf [-v var] format [arguments] to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z ${!name[*]} when they are used in expressions. If the operating system on which ated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the file‐ -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option /dev/stdout -T The maximum number of threads and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be table object) file format. after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, ries. sions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish time‐ completions, one per line, to the standard output. Backslash may be the variable's value. the line is read but before the array element is assigned. attribute, the list of words can be a list of shell variables, and a value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If arguments to the invoked command. possible-filename-completions (C-x /) list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or current bash session. opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. event; the empty string is returned in that case. or no matches were generated. subscript are supplied, that index is assigned to; otherwise the index QUOTING The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the
