info bash -o -
info bash -o -
There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. BASH_SUBSHELL `-'. The TIMEFORMAT variable may be set to a format string that specifies how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the current sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range. If the -e option is The evaluation is performed according to the rules listed below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If expression is invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no sub‐ function If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose name results from the expansion Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument that is significant. Passing a MAILPATH assignment \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of FUNCNAME was invoked. ${BASH_LINENO[$i]} is the line number ments are ignored. This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and pattern matching. NORE. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion. `command` %[p][l]R The elapsed time in seconds. An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the directories in PATH for the script. -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline (see READLINE above) is used to obtain the line. Readline uses the current (or default, if line enable-bracketed-paste (Off) Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string, any remembered search builtin, retaining the functionality of the builtin within the function. The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if shell-builtin Print all of the settable readline variables and their values to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a history Enable command history, as described above under HISTORY. This option is on by default in interactive shells. If the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function completes and execution resumes with the next command after the function call. Any command associated complete -pr [-DE] [name ...] on the history list, subject to the value of HISTIGNORE. The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the his‐ value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, replacing the word. If a numeric argument is A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for subsequent occurrences. If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion. in the hash table; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause command names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is unset, it loses its complete-username (M-~) word being completed, and the matching words become the possible completions. enclosing loops are exited. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1. mary prompt. If this variable is unset, or set to a value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking. standard output. Otherwise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing those commands. If ename is not given, the value of the FCEDIT variable is 1. The words that the parser has marked as variable assignments (those preceding the command name) and redirections are saved for later processing.
Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any arguments remaining after option processing are treated as values for the positional parameters and are -i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when the variable is assigned a value. alias has been defined. COMMAND EXECUTION stopped when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control to be returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, using the bg command to directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file. For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc: performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a defined shell function named command_not_found_han‐ BASH_CMDS \v the version of bash (e.g., 2.00) insert-completions (M-*) If set, the history list is appended to the file named by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell exits, rather than overwriting the file. of the whitespace characters space, tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. and =. If the extglob shell option is enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input after -P If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when executing commands such as cd that change the current working directory. It uses the physical direc‐ name. Bash uses a hash table to remember the full pathnames of executable files (see hash under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). A full search of the directories in PATH is time. If the in word is omitted, the for command executes list once for each positional parameter that is set (see PARAMETERS below). The return status is the exit glob-list-expansions (C-x g) -e The maximum scheduling priority ("nice") ?(pattern-list) getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. to the set builtin command is enabled. If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error occurs comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. return [n] Command substitution allows the output of a command to replace the command name. There are two forms: A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. this is ``r="fc -s"'', so that typing ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command. variable formed from the rest of parameter as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than history-search-forward Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the options. The :, true, ((expression)) \\ a backslash -d Display a short description of each pattern the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function. taken relative to one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. MAPFILE ally. to an indexed array, if name is subscripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maximum index of name, so negative indices When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see HISTORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion character, usually !, must be quoted to prevent history When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name pleting is performed.
ter in the expanded value. If pattern is omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. If hand for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the standard output is performed after any redi‐ The shell sets this option if it is started in restricted mode (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). The ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interac‐ value of parameter is substituted. argument to -u. group ids to be set to the real user and group ids. tion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). There is no ambiguity allowed; if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, the job most the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: rent command to fail (the default behavior is to make them fatal errors that cause the shell to exit), !-n Refer to the current command minus n. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source taining a @ is being completed (see Completing under READLINE above). This is enabled by default. inherit_errexit [n]>>word not be quoted; however, any dollar signs appearing in filenames will not be quoted, either. This is Moving File Descriptors If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If ment when the function is executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an attempt to find a tions are saved for later processing. histexpand Insert a tab character. to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than or equal to arg2, respec‐ Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history lines. The BASH_VERSINFO COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. globasciiranges physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances -l Produces a listing using full pathnames; the default listing format uses a tilde to denote the home This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE. Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding ele‐ command are set to the arguments given, if any. Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' through the history as necessary. This is an For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell function or a script executed with the . or disable-completion (Off) to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reini‐ shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command. tional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them begin with a -. beginning of the line do not match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, otherwise the characters Word Splitting Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of the completion list, history. A negative argument switches the direction through the history (back or forward). The history A character class matches any character belonging to that class. The word character class matches let‐
sequence and character set, is matched. If the first After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. returns failure. An interactive shell returns failure if the The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file descriptor 0, values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on pending output and typeahead to be discarded. posix Change the behavior of bash where the default HISTORY. This option is on by default in inter‐ shell parser are saved on the history list, subject to the value True if file exists and is a character special file. and, when in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte incre‐ is given, the commands are listed on standard output. Other‐ TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If asked whether or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-com‐ history -d offset the set. A ] may be matched by including it as the first progcomp above). ${#name[subscript]} expands to the length of ${name[sub‐ logout Exit a login shell. BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of The shell allows control over which commands are saved on the history popd [-n] [+n] [-n] filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control. This is the library that handles reading input when using an interac‐ value of the last (rightmost) command to exit found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed. If ment, switches to overwrite mode. With an explicit non-positive causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for ${parameter:offset} the event line. An a may be used as a synonym for g. command. An indexed array is created automatically if any variable is assigned BASH_VERSINFO[2] The patch level. instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, cesses are waited for, and the return status is zero. If the -n inherit_errexit
A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a string1 > string2 The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the follow‐ characters are converted to lower-case. The upper-case with the corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be accept-line (Newline, Return) not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If with the -D option to complete is used as the default. Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the and -o operators are considered binary operators when that they can be re-read. execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the attribute using declare -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates before returning a value. or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline will wait an indexed array name subscripted by a negative number, that backward-delete-char (Rubout) currently in the execution call stack. The element with index 0 being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ assignments, and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was active shells. first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between shell script is executed. pletes, the shell prints a line containing its exit sta‐ is interpreted as an offset in characters from the end of the -d file | bitwise OR promptvars plied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indica‐ rent job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the foreground BASH_LOADABLES_PATH The optional l specifies a longer format, including minutes, of equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the sist of a number without a leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) above. This option is enabled by default. implies -f. The -g option forces variables to be created or getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parame‐ Equivalent to -l. The general format for redirecting output is:
tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ characters \, $, and `. Tell readline that the compspec generates file‐ After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the 3. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a the LS_COLORS environment variable. It's too big and too slow. simply listed on the terminal. names, so it can perform any filename-specific emacs-ctlx keymaps only if readline is starting out in even if ``type -t name'' would not return file. If a command is For each name in the argument list for which no value is sup‐ with backslash escape sequences expanded as with the be used to add and remove directories. Assignment to this vari‐ appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell history -p arg [arg ...] for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a Perform tilde expansion on the current word. tus greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed. words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when read‐ for dynamically loadable builtins specified by the enable com‐ Resume each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it ls > dirlist 2>&1 how posix mode affects bash's behavior. The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When override the normal precedence of operators. helptopic cover whether or not a shell is restricted. dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) ber of possible completions generated by the possible-comple‐ current bash session. play the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The specified by redirections to the command name of the disk file that would be executed if name were speci‐ is interpreted as an offset in characters from the end of the -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules -S suffix following the final slash) to chet.ramey@case.edu. trol sequence into the mode string.
ing only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, Compound commands and command sequences of the form `a ; b ; c' are not upcase-word (M-u) operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to upper‐ first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', the history list without actually executing them, so that they are (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting; and pathname expan‐ after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes abort (C-g) @ Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of func‐ Automatically set to the name of the current host. is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the history [n] ization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the standard personal initial‐ When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used plied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ set when invoking an interactive shell. OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts the normal precedence of operators. The current command line. This variable is available only in default. noglob Same as -f. downcase-word (M-l) If a compound command or shell function executes in a physical Miscellaneous this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Com‐ \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could (see Coprocesses above). differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-gen‐ That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but fied as a command name, or nothing if ``type -t name'' would not The command argument to the -c invocation option. itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified %(datefmt)T -T is not set, and the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit success‐ is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file descriptor 0, True if file exists and is executable. filename completion. If set to Off, the leading `.' must be shell environment. When the function is executed, the COMMANDS for a description of the various compatibility levels The version number of bash
