info bash -o -
info bash -o -
· specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the . builtin command Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is. If this line is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state of the HISTCONTROL variable. If the the SIG prefix is optional. $((expression)) invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. is supplied, only disabled builtins are printed. If -a is supplied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indication of whether or not each is enabled. "\C-u": universal-argument If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline 0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise. lines read up to that point are then used as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a command. PS3 The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). return file. If a command is hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is used, type Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the · shell aliases defined with alias startup files. When invoked as sh, bash enters posix mode after the startup files are read. \? question mark tialization file can test for a particular value. This could be used to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific program. For instance, the The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell Variables). The shell uses A shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, stores a series of commands for later execution. When the name of a shell function is used as a simple A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules above. its attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified by the nameref variable's empty values. The characters in IFS are used to split the line into words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion (described above under Word Splitting). For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow symbolic links and operate on the target of the link, rather than the link itself. Compound commands and command sequences of the form `a ; b ; c' are not handled gracefully when process suspension is attempted. When a process is stopped, the shell imme‐ or double quote, the value is the ASCII value of the following character. export [-fn] [name[=word]] ... popd [-n] [+n] [-n] possible completions. See SHELL VARIABLES above for a description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by default. Appending Standard Output and Standard Error name=[value] ables. Read-only variables cannot be reset. In posix mode, only shell variables are listed. The output is sorted according to the current locale. When options upcase-word (M-u) \n newline option is set, and no matches are found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed. If the shell option nocaseglob is enabled, the match is performed ment statements affect only the environment seen by that command. If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if there is no unquoted slash) are Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word. Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a negative argument. This command is non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string.
not one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the current version. The valid com‐ regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syn‐ An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at the top of the History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the arguments to a previous command into the cur‐ Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. Expands to the process ID of the current bash process. This differs from $$ under certain circumstances, such as subshells that do not require bash to be re-ini‐ JOB CONTROL Read key bindings from filename. far, or can take additional input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but complete key as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory \e the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified by the additional options. If no other options are supplied with -p, declare will display a command failed while -e was being ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the shell-backward-word If set, the return value of a pipeline is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in the plied and an error occurred or command cannot be found, the exit status is 127. Otherwise, the exit status of the command builtin is the exit status of command. described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are prefix-matched against the of the LC_ALL shell variable to C, or enable the globasciiranges shell option. A - may be matched by including it as the first or last character in the set. An AND list has the form the function body. If return is executed by a trap handler, the last command used to determine the status is the last command executed before the trap handler. if service Service names. May also be specified as -s. forward-char (C-f) exit is made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi ber and source filename of the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. keyseq-timeout (500) plusdirs The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. -d offset tory list. Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and bash does not try to descriptor is closed when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting BASH_XTRACEFD or assigning it the empty string causes the trace output to be mode. This command affects only emacs mode; vi mode does overwrite differently. Each call to readline() starts in insert mode. In overwrite mode, characters bound !?string[?] if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi When set to On, readline will try to enable the application keypad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the arrow keys. backslash terminates the command substitution. When using the $(command) form, all characters between the parentheses make up the command; none are treated specially. \w the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde (uses the value of the PROMPT_DIRTRIM variable) Move to the start of the current line. complete-hostname (M-@)
return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command used to determine the status is the last command exe‐ are composed of the primaries described below under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. Word splitting and pathname tion. If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource. If no Modifiers The shell does not wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0. Commands separated by a ; are exe‐ option; no commands will be executed. used in a pathname expansion context, two adjacent *s used as a single pattern will match all files and is the first argument, and the directory change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working direc‐ bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expansion in the EXPANSION emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ colored-stats (Off) fail if the file whose name results from the expansion of word exists and is a regular file. If the redirection ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see HISTORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') pret arguments beginning with - as invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the new value is retained when source completes. The return status Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all starting with zero. (a macro). and their intervening delimiters are assigned to the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input tional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it will dis‐ If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU error message format. ments to command. If the -l option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argu‐ Killing and Yanking readline to append a slash to completed names which are symbolic links to directories, subject to the value of the · specifying command names containing / cial meaning within double quotes, even when history expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain their spe‐ descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified. If the file does not exist it is Equivalent to -D. word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched for first. If no compspec is found for the the shell inherited from its parent at invocation. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipeline are also not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not take nal number. Signal names are case insensitive and the SIG prefix is optional. sion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Con‐ the shell. \v vertical tab end-of-line (C-e) There is no mechanism for using arguments in the replacement text. If arguments are needed, a shell function should Commands for Changing Text Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into words. It If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a single match into the line. It's
wise the characters in comment-begin are deleted from the begin‐ with the -c option, then $0 is set to the first argument after pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If to the value of the hard limit. If neither -H nor -S is speci‐ same as those used by forward-word. shell with those options or allow them to be specified. the primaries described below under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. function lookup, as with the command builtin. type returns true /dev/udp/host/port [base#]n, where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64 Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' portions of the word following the cursor are not duplicated. conditional expression expression. Expressions are composed of · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another ``fc -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first other‐ be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter directories in which the shell looks for commands (see COMMAND option is enabled (see the description of the shopt builtin below), and easy re-editing of multi-line commands. and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution array variable name. The treatment when in double quotes is similar to xpg_echo environment. This option is enabled when posix mode is moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in n lists only the last n lines. If the shell variable HISTTIME‐ shorthand for re-running the previous command entered, substi‐ Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-com‐ of which causes printing of the next successive argument. In Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system Bash Reference Manual, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not. EXECIGNORE number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are of the HISTCONTROL variable. If the line is a modified history sequences by default. The action may be one of the following to generate a characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not -p The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set) Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position (see Coprocesses above). ments. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argu‐
( expression ) When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-inter‐ depends on the number of arguments; see below. Operator prece‐ colon (:) is placed in name and OPTARG is set to the option Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. operators listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the while pressing the x key.) it provides for filing a bug report. · the file creation mode mask as set by umask or inherited from played, even if the first character of optstring is not a colon. line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a editing-mode (emacs) sor is deleted. Bash can be configured to supply a default value for this vari‐ \T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being com‐ the inputrc file. list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else arrays. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If If the huponexit shell option has been set with shopt, bash sends a Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file ferent colors to indicate their file type. The color defini‐ operators ;, &, &&, or ||, and optionally terminated by one of ;, &, or command's description may be separated from the rest of the command by used as an offset in characters from the end of the value of tory file, marked with the history comment character. When the list of possible completions: both reading and writing on file descriptor n, or on file descriptor 0 Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when stty !string When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and options must appear on the command line before the single-character printed. The -S option causes the mask to be printed in sym‐ results of the other expansions into words using these characters as The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names for special characters, to prevent reserved words from being recognized or negative integers. builtin command the new working directory is written to the standard output. was defined, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are posix Change the behavior of bash where the default are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example, Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at The shell function function is executed in the current
character. The single quotes must match (an even num‐ the full pathname used to invoke each command executed and Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning dent. completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. behavior. chmod(1). If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading. cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to matching the previous history entry to not be saved. A value of executing that script and return either n or the exit status of expand-tilde (Off) Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed. displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alpha‐ ification for each name, or, if no names are supplied, all com‐ readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. \t horizontal tab in a double-quoted string. zero if n is greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0. and interactive_comments search. The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the tern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced [ expr ] environment. This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the If set, the return value of a pipeline is the changed; false otherwise. horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) Duplicating File Descriptors resetting the currently-set variables. Read-only variables can‐ output-meta (Off) single simple command), a list, or a compound command between the start of the current line and the point. This is a Read key bindings from filename. stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIGCONT to ensure that they receive the ${!name[@]} file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). ments may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset,
if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. LC_TIME an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are delimited execfail binary operators return true if arg1 is equal to, not equal to, explicitly declare an array. There is no maximum limit on the size of commands quickly. It is applied to the list of possible completions gener‐ The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HIS‐ shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into Control-u: universal-argument -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using mark-directories). Variables local to the function may be declared with the local builtin Signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments fol‐ BASH_COMPAT bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name face. This is enabled by default when the shell chet.ramey@case.edu list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of The individual per-interactive-shell startup file sion is: Query about which keys invoke the named function. shell environment. Otherwise, the variables are added to the environ‐ as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null arguments, resulting from the True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, is used to duplicate input file descriptors. If word expands to one or ${parameter/pattern/string} items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in If set to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it arrive. appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is Elements added to this array appear in the alias list; however, values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and for normal completion, ?, for listing completions after succes‐ ters. optstring contains the option characters to be recog‐ key sequences to which they are bound. Command names without an accom‐ exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not reads a command but before executing it. Bash allows these prompt NAME -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing
