info bash -o -
info bash -o -
possible-completions (M-?) input-meta (Off) are interpreted as timestamps for the preceding history line. These timestamps are optionally displayed depending on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file. For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc: · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from the shell's parent, and traps ignored by the shell are ignored ments are found, false if any are not found. A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a semicolon to delimit commands. complete-command (M-!) execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of test expr if any, and execute any associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the last command Each variable assignment is checked for unquoted tilde-prefixes immediately following a : or the first =. In these cases, tilde expansion is also performed. Consequently, upcase-word (M-u) Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard output was redirected to dirlist. Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, any existing history entries are deleted and no new entries are saved. If set exit status of the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error message and returns an exit status of 127. \t horizontal tab but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and bash does not try to If set, bash does not process the replacement string in the pattern substitution word expansion using quote removal. is set to ?. id++ id-- DEFINITIONS Read in the contents of the inputrc file, and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found there. is not a shell builtin command. The number of screen columns used to display possible matches when performing completion. The value is ignored if it is less than 0 or greater than the terminal is excluded from the list of matched filenames. A sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains tildes). Word designators are used to select desired words from the event. A : separates the event specification from the word designator. It may be omitted if the word designator the generated completions against the word being completed is performed; the function or command has complete freedom in generating the matches. -d file following history entry. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below). ~/.bashrc Completing [n]<&word command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of the last command executed in the expr1 -o expr2 comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines.
-d file FUNCTIONS If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execution environment. Argument 0 is enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each input line, rather than newline. inherits the file descriptors of the calling shell as modified by redirections. variable post-increment and post-decrement The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not been present. The following variables are used by the shell. In some cases, bash assigns a default value to a variable; these cases are noted below. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirections specified by the command List the possible completions of the text before point. builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. set variable-name value HISTCMD True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for both reading and writing on file descriptor n, or on file descriptor 0 if n is not specified. If the above). This option is enabled by default. MACHTYPE \' single quote -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues exit status greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed. True if file exists and is a symbolic link. magic-space ment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file currently being checked. break [n] In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the redirection refers to the standard 3 arguments string1 = string2 If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, and the return status is 0. popd returns false if an invalid option is encountered, the directory unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...] The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the current completion function. %[p][l]U The number of CPU seconds spent in user mode. EXPANSION Word Designators names only (and optionally the source file and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions may be exported so that subshells automatically have them Completing \# the command number of this command pletion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is most useful when used in combination with a default completion specified with complete -D. It's pos‐ one terminates due to an interrupt. The rules concerning the definition and use of aliases are somewhat confusing. Bash always reads at least one complete line of input before executing any of the commands -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum.
Programmable Completion An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final param‐ HISTIGNORE. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. ation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and only if the second argument is null. If the If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete TIMEFORMAT exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) The special pattern characters have the following meanings: Event Designators ${parameter##word} -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can (i.e. missing parameters). not the subshell. are immune to keyboard-generated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, if the user so -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) !-n Refer to the current command minus n. command1 && command2 -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file. These are history lines entered since the begin‐ to forget all remembered locations. The -d option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of each If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing link, rather than the link itself. to obtain the current line number. the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the special character. The single quotes must match (an even number) and the characters between the sin‐ array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ !n Refer to command line n. prompt. This is effective only when job control is enabled. kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] [pid | jobspec] ... Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history ters bound to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters show-all-if-unmodified (Off) ment error (such as assigning to a readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the without intervening separators. As a consequence, aliases defined in a function are not available until after that function is executed. To be safe, return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command used to determine the status is the last command exe‐ OP is one of -eq, -ne, -lt, -le, -gt, or -ge. These arithmetic binary operators return true if arg1 is equal the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the new value is retained when source completes. The return status with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion history-search-backward · shell aliases defined with alias deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the environment is modified, the new value becomes part True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. replaced with an ellipsis. Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro. COMP_TYPE
a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words Turning this option off causes the effective user and forward-backward-delete-char eval [arg ...] if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi statement properties. the longest match of pattern against its value is replaced with multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semicolons where boards without a meta key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key last. errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command placed in the environment for a command, not just those \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion compat40 rection operator >| instead of >. ((expression)) defining the list of filenames to be ignored by command search each function name supplied as an argument. specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this exe‐ are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ print-completions-horizontally (Off) SEE ALSO Arrays replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). while the command -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. and made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another -P The maximum number of pseudoterminals ronment separately (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions Redirecting Output and so on. tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to The command currently being executed or about to be executed, itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a is the status of the last command exited within the script (0 if the string to be translated according to the current locale. If the index into the history list, where a negative number is used as possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) command has complete freedom in generating the matches. If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the determine the status is the last command executed before the HOSTFILE
descriptors for output from and input to an unnamed coprocess SECONDS, the value returned upon subsequent references is the If set to On, readline displays possible completions using dif‐ The process of applying these completion specifications when # Quote the current or previous word for (( expr1 ; expr2 ; expr3 )) ; do list ; done fg [jobspec] whose names begin with a `.' (hidden files) when performing inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results operators ;, &, &&, or ||, and optionally terminated by one of ;, &, or only. additional input. If this variable is set to a value less than the call stack. had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's string1 < string2 True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. COMP_CWORD remaining words and their intervening delimiters are assigned to tion. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipeline are also used, type prints all of the places that contain an executable (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for which the has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option plied, or if job control is not enabled. enabled. For example, to use the test binary found via the PATH ber) and the characters between the single quotes are extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug for instance. shell functions, command substitutions, and commands shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading. Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string function name [()] compound-command [redirection] -n string the number of words of the expansion; other expansions expand a single -u Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the stan‐ The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a sub‐ downcase-word (M-l) Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text unchanged. to be interpreted as part of its name. The parameter is a shell pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double mands. GNU error message format. Insert a tab character. acter as if it had been read from the keyboard. This can pre‐ key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by
verbose Same as -v. a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a Insert all completions of the text before point that would have space. By default, this command is unbound. generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable com‐ any compspec defined with the -E option to complete is used. If a compat42 overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ character-search-backward (M-C-]) to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted text is assumed to be a func‐ emacs(1), vi(1) default Use readline's default filename completion if (if the text begins with @), or command (including aliases and to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The his‐ -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds colored-completion-prefix (Off) -S file the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) perform hostname completion when a word containing a @ True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. value HH (one or two hex digits) tory or next-history. -k file Compound Commands of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing x-y A range of words; `-y' abbreviates `0-y'. tions took place, the last string in a !?string[?] search. Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables are ified as -v. expansion of word to be opened for writing on file descriptor n, or the An associative array variable whose members correspond to the or an associative array name, the results differ as described Next, any command specified with the -C option is invoked in an envi‐ colored-stats (Off) scrolling the input horizontally on a single screen line when it inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function \] end a sequence of non-printing characters delete-horizontal-space (M-\) input line, rather than newline.
quoted in a format that can be reused as input. the last command executed within the script as the exit status PATH is not used to search for the resultant filename. program. For instance, the following command adds a key play the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is neither option is supplied and an error occurred or command can‐ Same as -H. fg [jobspec] An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in ARGUMENTS carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between forward-backward-delete-char option causes a single word indicating the command or filename ${parameter} used, $0 is prefixed to the list. match-hidden-files (On) above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an the shell's parent, and traps ignored by the shell are ignored standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display array C-x C-r is bound to the function re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is history-size (unset) attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text file as a directory. An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible com‐ addition to the standard printf(1) format specifications, printf stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the arguments to a option is supplied, wait waits for any job to terminate and this variable is assigned a value, the history file is trun‐ rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless list of matched filenames. A sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a If a command is terminated by the control operator &, the shell exe‐ tion and its children. If name is -, the set of shell options specified attribute or to give variables attributes: scripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is applied the -f option to the export builtin. A function definition may be nested. PLY array variable. input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is be specified as -j. True if file exists and is a symbolic link. the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a interactive shells expand the ENV variable and commands are read and
