info bash -o -
info bash -o -
parameters and special parameters may not be assigned to in this way. Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top. Only works following yank or yank-pop. Equivalent to -l. -r Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. verted to $OLDPWD before the directory change is attempted. If a non-empty directory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, and the directory returns. With no operands, local writes a list of local variables to the standard output. It is an error to use local when not within a function. The return sta‐ handles in the current shell execution environment. The following redirection operators may precede or appear anywhere within a simple command or may follow a command. Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred to using a filename. It takes the form of <(list) or >(list). The process list is run asyn‐ !-n Refer to the current command minus n. Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be generated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the filenames generated need not exist. MANDS below). The options appearing in BASHOPTS are those reported as on by shopt. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument to the cd command. This option is only used by interactive A ] may be matched by including it as the first character in the set. -- A -- signals the end of options and disables further option processing. Any arguments after the -- are treated as filenames and arguments. An argument of - is -n nchars +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero. escape characters, even on systems where they are interpreted by default. The xpg_echo shell option may be used to dynamically determine whether or not echo expands See the description of the test builtin command (section SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) for the handling of parameters (i.e. missing parameters). yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in pipeline but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted using !. These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) option. shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the history file, otherwise the history file is overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history -m Display the description of each pattern in a manpage-like format BASHOPTS stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change fails. When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. HISTSIZE If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as described below. Otherwise, the command exits. If one of the expansions contained a command substi‐ The value of BASH_ENV is subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a filename. PATH is not used An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at the top of the enabled, !. When the shell is in posix mode, the ! has no special meaning within double quotes, even when history expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain characters before point. Negative arguments have no effect. -v Print shell input lines as they are read. fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirections, as described in the following table. If the operating system on which bash is running provides %% A literal %. through the list. This command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by default. keymap (emacs) globasciiranges %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. it is interpreted as the first word of the simple command. When the coprocess is executed, the shell creates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context
enabled by default for interactive shells, and can be disabled using the +H option to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Non-interactive shells do If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by legal, and bash will create an array if necessary. file. If bash is started with the -c option, then $0 is set to the first argument after the string to be executed, if one is present. Otherwise, it is set to the Same as -B. An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable completion facility (see Programmable Com‐ shells. If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to perform hostname completion when a word containing a @ is being completed (see Completing under 1) if n is not specified. If the file does not exist it is created; if it does exist it is truncated to zero size. -g file A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form end-of-line (C-e) ment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file currently being checked. Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below). printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. completed on the current command line. When it finishes, the possible completions are retrieved from the value of the COMPREPLY array variable. . filename [arguments] the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) re-running the previous command entered, substituting one string for another in the command. The default is `^'. The optional third character is the character Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word boundary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the directories in PATH for the script. regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syn‐ Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete key sequence using the input read so In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the redirection refers to the standard mand to abort. plied, -A takes precedence. The read builtin accepts a -a option to assign a list of words read from the standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value substituted is the number of positional bash [options] [command_string | file] Resume each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. bg service Service names. May also be specified as -s. complete-into-braces (M-{) history-preserve-point (Off) that case. colon, the option is expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it by white space. The colon and question mark characters may not be used as sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. recreate the current option settings is displayed on the standard output. In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the interactive_comments option to the shopt builtin is enabled (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word ignored). value. The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirections specified by the command -W wordlist value. A nameref is commonly used within shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argument to the function. For instance, if a variable name is directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as the first word of a simple command. The shell maintains a list of aliases that may be set and unset pattern (the ``%%'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the
specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when only. -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds ulate the selected words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when reading input, so that several plied, have the following meanings: ring. shell prints an error message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the current version. The Expands to the process ID of the current bash process. This differs from $$ under certain circumstances, such job or jobspec specifies a job that was started without job control. text is assumed to be a function name. In the macro body, the backslash escapes described above are expanded. Back‐ digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) retrieved from the value of the COMPREPLY array variable. kill-word (M-d) Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters hashed commands is not consulted when using -a. The -f option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the The ERR trap is not executed if the failed command is part of the command list immediately following a while If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing -k All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not Insert the character typed. physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. operator and operand must be a separate argument. Expressions are composed of the primaries described above to signify the end of the options. The :, true, false, and test builtins do not accept options and do not treat -- When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the environment. This is a list of name-value tively. Arg1 and arg2 may be positive or negative integers. should be read to obtain the output of list. Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes TIMEFORMAT · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions specified by redirections to the command history-search-forward The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed without mod‐ suspend [-f] a non-existent function with -f. login shell (see INVOCATION below). x* Abbreviates x-$. cation using readline. The text of the test extends to the end of the line; no characters are required to current directory. A null directory name may appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or trailing Delete the history entry at position offset. shell and by the commands it invokes. If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap commands variable has its integer attribute set, then value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status is the exit status of the last process BASH_COMPAT unset. +(pattern-list) refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argument to the function. For instance, if a variable name is passed shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, then nothing is processing (like adding a slash to directory names, quoting special characters, or suppressing ARITHMETIC EVALUATION or symbol to be expanded may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be
been accessed since the last time it was checked, the option causes a single word indicating the command or filename g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is bers. Same as -E. -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional -S suffix stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIGCONT to ensure that they receive the -s Discard the first count lines read. If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the before returning when accept-line is executed. By default, his‐ blanks and newlines. programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the locale) as the character c. declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the matching words jobs -x command [ args ... ] Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the tions, as described in the following table. If the operating system on text against lines from the history list for possible completion string, any remembered search string is used. line. The delimiter may be quoted in old and new with a single || & && ; ;; ;& ;;& ( ) | |& <newline> the value is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. of "$@" and "${name[@]}" as explained above (see PARAMETERS). for (( expr1 ; expr2 ; expr3 )) ; do list ; done string [ expr ] take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 to the readline completion code as the list of possible completions. file can test for a particular value. This could be used command. dence is used when there are five or more arguments. coprocess is executed asynchronously in a subshell, as if the command isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') shell option nullglob is not enabled, the word is left unchanged. If substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. tuted is the number of elements in the array. If parameter is -m keymap command. Ordinarily, variables and their values are shared between the If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the those used by shell-backward-word. value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. ing only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the
causes the shell to save the command with embedded newlines instead of \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal the -p option is not also used. The table of hashed commands is If a compound command or shell function executes in a pleted. type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-com‐ play the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0. Commands compat41 % The word matched by the most recent `?string?' search. stants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and erand must be a separate argument. Expressions are composed of -s Enable (set) each optname. direxpand ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select Perform tilde expansion on the current word. lowed by digits, executing universal-argument again ends the not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable read. user mail files that it uses is system dependent (e.g., forward-word (M-f) command and an optional list of arguments, the following actions are able: process substitution. This is performed at the same time as ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not $((expression)) before returning a value. depends on the number of arguments; see below. Operator prece‐ attribute. However, nameref variables can reference array variables Readline Initialization tion name. In the macro body, the backslash escapes described above commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines process list is run asynchronously, and its input or output appears as replaced. If pattern begins with #, it must match at the begin‐ take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 ${parameter#word} run the macro expressed on the right hand side (that is, to insert the The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be x-y A range of words; `-y' abbreviates `0-y'. string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. This vari‐ above under Pathname Expansion are enabled. True if file exists and is a block special file. of which causes printing of the next successive argument. In specified with the -F and -C options is invoked. When the command or tory substitution are not immediately passed to the
and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. acters in the macro appear as if typed at the keyboard. display a non-existent function with -f. indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi expression. The element with index n is the portion of the ronment of subsequently executed commands. If the -f option is occurs while reading the name of the current directory or an expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the of word expansion when performing filename completion. When bash is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for Modifiers ronment seen by that command. attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute \v the version of bash (e.g., 2.00) COPYRIGHT is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-com‐ If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that ments, and attribute modifications to name, except those after the decimal point may be specified; values of p greater ${#parameter} allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin command. message ``The mail in mailfile has been read'' is dis‐ decreasing order of precedence: tion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or >word 2>&1 In this example, C-u is again bound to the function universal-argument. This type of redirection instructs the shell to read input from the tional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant Show version information for this instance of bash on the stan‐ the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted. If the char‐ output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified. an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no user and system time consumed by its execution are reported when the cial variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is to the set builtin command); the -L option forces symbolic links The word following the redirection operator in the following descrip‐ This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] below. If length is omitted, expands to the substring of the forward-word (M-f) The format for appending standard output and standard error is: to open the corresponding TCP socket. The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, pipefail Move to the end of the line.
unix-word-rubout (C-w) Perform directory name completion if the comp‐ Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell bash will write the trace output generated when set -x is the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see on the standard output. These are the strings that are sub‐ in a locale-specific time representation. The braces are <= >= < > -p file active shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes com‐ tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCON‐ source filename [arguments] yank-pop (M-y) -w file set when invoking an interactive shell. · the current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or in shell variable references in words to be completed. the inputrc file. Word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern quently reset. available for subsequent recall. The version number of bash Line editing is also used when using the -e option to the read builtin. character-search-backward (M-C-]) Same as -C. library sets the application name, and an initialization If set, the pattern 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh used in a pathname expansion con‐ -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option set variable-name value True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. before returning a value. has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero when the format string is displayed. are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. Each redirection that may be preceded by a file descriptor number may pletions. 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. default. the command, with any trailing newlines deleted. Embedded newlines are this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating
