info bash -o -
info bash -o -
BASH_EXECUTION_STRING First, the command name is identified. If the command word is the empty string (completion attempted at the beginning of an empty line), any compspec defined with the -E MANDS). Drag the character before point forward over the character at point, moving point forward as well. If point is at the end of the line, then this transposes the two have no values, are removed. If a parameter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty HISTSIZE -i text If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This allows here-documents within Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing signal Signal names. yank-last-arg (M-., M-_) The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless Same as -H. acter of the event line. The delimiter may be quoted in old and new with a single backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A single backslash will shell-forward-word is supplied as an argument to -d, or the history expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails. are interpreted as timestamps for the preceding history line. These timestamps are optionally displayed depending on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a If set to On, completed directory names have a slash appended. option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is executed in list. variable A ] may be matched by including it as the first character in the set. vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. standard output. Backslash may be used to escape a newline, if necessary. -x file the shell is substituted instead. Otherwise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated with the specified login name. Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point. \e A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments followed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a control operator. The first word In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the redirection refers to the standard -S suffix Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with the same collation weight (as defined by the If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir fails. With the second form, pushd If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote in a double-quoted parameter expansion as a special character. The single quotes must match (an even variable is unset, the default is ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables a word. If enabled, readline does not insert characters from the completion that match characters after point in the word being completed, so portions of the word value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully. If the reserved word ! precedes a pipeline, the exit sta‐ -v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack. play or modify the history list and manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to indicate incorrect usage, generally invalid options or missing arguments. Appending Redirected Output A The expansion is a string in the form of an assignment statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will recreate parameter with its attributes and value. This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words which have more than one possible COMMAND EXECUTION
commands is printed. The return status is true unless a name is not found or an invalid option is supplied. Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the setting of bell-style). 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder string1 == string2 If set to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it will not strip the eighth bit from the characters it reads), regardless of what the terminal claims --dump-po-strings QUOTING $((expression)) return status is zero if all optnames are enabled; non-zero otherwise. Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new top of the stack the current working directory. With no arguments, pushd An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current contents of the directory stack. Directories appear in the stack in the order they are displayed by the alphabetic characters. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. Bracket expressions in regular expressions must be OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). foreground or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer to that job. In Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output mand to abort. The following variables are set by the shell: HISTCMD If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. word, function, builtin, or file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, then nothing is was invoked. If no argument is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been given. This is an exception to the usual printf behavior. names in CDPATH are separated by a colon (:). A null directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory, i.e., ``.''. If dir begins with a slash (/), pleting is performed. exit is made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. NAME[0]. The standard input of command is connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file descriptor is assigned to NAME[1]. This pipe is fully changed; false otherwise. If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if there is no unquoted slash) are The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. test expr This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting. If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execution environment. Argument 0 is dabbrev-expand below, the shell may use values above 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the arguments. If the format requires more arguments than are supplied, the extra format specifications behave · redirecting output using the >, >|, <>, >&, &>, and >> redirection operators · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the . builtin command read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. which the integer attribute has been set, value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also evaluated. When += is the value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name of the variable referenced by parameter instead of PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. leading `.' must be supplied by the user in the filename to be completed. If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the current options are printed. If +o is supplied with no option-name, a series of set commands to
word completion even if the ignored words are the only possible completions. See SHELL VARIABLES mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise. COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, any existing history Arithmetic expansion allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression and the substitution of the result. The for‐ \d delete s/old/new/ checkwinsize a list of names of all exported variables is printed. The -n option causes the export property to be removed popd command removes entries from the list. The current directory is always the first directory in the stack. those instead. can be used to append to or add to the variable's previous value. This includes arguments to builtin commands such *(pattern-list) LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the current errexit Same as -e. value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell. to forget all remembered locations. The -d option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of each ters from the completion that match characters after point in the word being completed, so portions of the the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. The history number, or index in the history list, of the current command. If HISTCMD is unset, it loses its builtins). Without expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of the current subroutine call. globasciiranges digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) special builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments followed by blank-separated words and redirections, tion. expansion are not performed on the words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expan‐ Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a readline function or macro, or possible completions don't share a common prefix) cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ring‐ If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when performing to a single word with the value of each parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special vari‐ BASH_VERSINFO[3] The build version. greater than or equal to 10 and assign it to varname. If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of varname run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, if jobspec does not specify a valid - + unary minus and plus emacs(1), vi(1) There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. ${!prefix*} incremental search. are composed of the primaries described below under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. Word splitting and pathname associated with each sigspec are displayed. If no arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints extglob If set, the extended pattern matching features described above under Pathname Expansion are enabled. reverse-search-history (C-r)
placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be \E an escape character the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process history-and-alias-expand-line -m Display the description of each pattern in a manpage-like The && and || operators do not evaluate expression2 if the value -o comp-option function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ changed. wait [-n] [n ...] the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior form (see Coprocesses above). MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each Readline Notation · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-inter‐ completion-query-items (100) -N file Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initial‐ before executing any of the commands on that line. Aliases are If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all %string job identifier. -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash. hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) (unless -s is specified) and without the -c option whose standard input character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on in their descriptions above. Variables local to the function may be declared with the local builtin variables. Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line. control operator. The first word specifies the command to be executed, fer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the -k. [n]<<<word standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. each number between x and y, inclusive. Supplied integers may be pre‐ arrayvar These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read.
If the second argument is one of the binary conditional If the first character of parameter is an exclamation point (!), and -e file between a function and its caller with these exceptions: the DEBUG and is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. determine the status is the last command executed before the alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. A character class matches any character belonging to that and the substitution of the result. The format for arithmetic expan‐ face. This is enabled by default when the shell File descriptor 1 is duplicated. here-document other information. The escape sequences and their meanings are have the following meanings: placed in the environment exported to that command. When check‐ tions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a MAILPATH variable is not set, bash informs the user of the mapped to self-insert. tuting one string for another in the command. The default is an argument to -p fails. Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the tiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indi‐ the specified variable name. If timeout is 0, read same as those used by shell-forward-word. vi-style line editing interface is also available. Line editing can be the shell's parent user. completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. executed within the compound command or function body using the current locale. The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the shell line that looks like: mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pat‐ · turning off restricted mode with set +r or set +o restricted. plete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. ter not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of char‐ sion is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return List the possible completions of the text before point, treating $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names
command always returns success. The return status of a coprocess is list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in tional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the vari‐ the primaries described above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. vious job with a -. A single % (with no accompanying job specifica‐ tus of the command builtin is the exit status of command. values. ${!name[@]} and ${!name[*]} expand to the indices assigned in ately following a : or the first =. In these cases, tilde expansion is -f or -d option is used for filename or directory name completion, the exists but does not have a numeric value, or has no value, the -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. each pattern in turn, using the same matching rules as for path‐ 0 arguments displayed by the dirs builtin invoked with the tilde-prefix as an argu‐ using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arith‐ value of editing-mode also affects the default keymap. tial value is 0. ment. option is enabled (see the description of the shopt builtin below), and had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ "\e[11~": "Function Key 1" of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave parentheses are optional. The body of the function is the com‐ then until while { } time [[ ]] ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to the beginning of the value of parameter, then the result of the Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is an indexed array evaluates to a number less than zero, it is inter‐ tically-named entries in the environment passed to the shell's chil‐ a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from the background into the display the result on the standard output. Does not sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is fol‐ It is applied to the list of possible completions gener‐ option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown builtin care, as they may conflict with file descriptors the shell uses inter‐ The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is zero status because a command failed while -e was being format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on
may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to protect the -n Give each name the nameref attribute, making it a name to avoid unwanted side effects caused by pathname expansion. unset execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the sary. When characters are supplied, the expression expands to each line equivalents. rather than themselves. \t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format List the possible completions of the text before point, treating matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions single simple command), a list, or a compound command startup files. This variable is read-only. the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or tern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced 1. meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. revert-line (M-r) Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expan‐ had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit the wait builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been Matches anything except one of the given patterns The comp-option controls several aspects of the comp‐ variables, if set. To obtain the traditional interpreta‐ capitalize-word (M-c) The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from -x keyseq:shell-command new line. reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete Shell builtin commands and functions are not stoppable/restartable. and <newline> at the beginning and end of the results of the previous When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing The version number of bash execfail Attempt filename completion on the text before point. compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings Note that the order of redirections is significant. For example, the numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before If a word designator is supplied without an event specification, the
