info bash -o -
info bash -o -
on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + rather than - causes these options to be turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments Insert all completions of the text before point that would have been generated by possible-completions. shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. descriptor is closed when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting BASH_XTRACEFD or assigning it the empty string causes the trace output to be TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select command terminates if input does not arrive after Names of all shell variables. May also be specified as -v. non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is readonly. hostcomplete The optional l specifies a longer format, including minutes, of the form MMmSS.FFs. The value of p determines whether or not the fraction is included. the standard input (file descriptor 0) is used. --posix compat40 Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches a trailing portion of the expanded expr?expr:expr The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the current completion function. -t timeout A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). unset using the -n option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the name of a nameref variable as an argument, the variable referenced by the nameref The expression is false. True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. patibility levels correspond to the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are valid val‐ When a command terminates on a fatal signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) _completion_loader() If set to On, readline will convert characters with the eighth bit set to an ASCII key sequence by stripping the eighth bit and prefixing an escape character (in extquote less than or equal to $#. If n is 0, no parameters are changed. If n is not given, it is assumed to be 1. If n is greater than $#, the positional parameters are hashall Same as -h. The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern is used to generate a list of matching next-history (C-n) The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file is specified). comparisons. That is, the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower- exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero. After any matches defined by the compspec are generated, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the other The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the following: An index into ${COMP_WORDS} of the word containing the current cursor position. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable com‐
export Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as -e. True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. [ expr ] kill-line (C-k) -a aname indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the last process in the pipeline associated with this job is 25647. All of the processes in a single problem. next argument to be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an option requires an tory structure instead. By default, bash follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change the current directory. The general format for appending output is: Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. \a an ASCII bell character (07) 2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are expanded. If any words remain after expansion, the first word is taken to be the name of the command hashed commands is not consulted when using -a. The -f option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the command builtin. type returns true if all of the argu‐ SEE ALSO Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If subscript is @ or *, the word Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. delimiter -c The maximum size of core files created True if file exists and is a block special file. Substitute new for the first occurrence of old in the event line. Any delimiter can be used in place of /. The final delimiter is optional if it is the last char‐ file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero forces the entire pattern to be matched as a string. Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular expression are saved in the array variable expands to the last argument to the previous command, after expansion. Also set to the full pathname used to invoke each command executed and placed in the environ‐ by default. In the following descriptions, point refers to the current cursor position, and mark refers to a cursor position saved by the set-mark command. The text ior remains as in previous versions. Keyboard Macros If set, and readline is being used, the results of history substitution are not immediately passed to the shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is history -s arg [arg ...] keymap (emacs) Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option implies -f. The -g option forces variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare is builtin Names of shell builtin commands. May also be specified as -b. wait [-n] [n ...]
a name that is not a function. True if file exists and is a directory. one word in the event; the empty string is returned in that case. cdable_vars of .. in dir (see also the -P option to the set builtin command); the -L option forces symbolic links to be -W wordlist ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps. i.e., ``.''. If dir begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not used. The -P option causes cd to use the A synonym for yank-last-arg. Swap the point with the mark. The current cursor position is set to the saved position, and the old cursor SYNOPSIS Readline Initialization application file descriptor, non-zero otherwise. The exit status is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded. stty tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal by the kernel's terminal driver, which, the %string job identifier. Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. Automatically set to the name of the current host. -p prompt temporarily replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). keys producing such sequences will have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (let‐ Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. -s file --posix If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an opening parenthesis when a closing parenthe‐ search is performed, and filename is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option causes the shell shopt, the source file name and line number where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey parameters is to be used. If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at invocation, the shell becomes restricted. A !-n Refer to the current command minus n. list after one terminates due to an interrupt. recently-executed foreground pipeline (which may contain only a single command). A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G option are generated next. The words generated RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between 0 and 32767 is generated. The sequence of --dump-strings the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, with the history comment character, so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history comment Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-incremental search for a string -G file output-meta (Off)
option. Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line tion as described above under Completing is performed. or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status tive shells. fully. If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the >word 2>&1 let arg [arg ...] PS4 The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and the COLUMNS In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance single pattern will match all files and zero or more RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such cases. MAILPATH variable is not set, bash informs the user of the -b The maximum socket buffer size the line is read but before the array element is assigned. A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in binding Readline key binding names. options must appear on the command line before the single-character ing directive would read /etc/inputrc: the command arguments, if any. Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the or Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard A character is read and point is moved to the next occurrence of \? question mark bered commands is printed. The return status is true unless a In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the inter‐ If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD An associative array variable whose members correspond to the standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display array builtin (in which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be increased up !! Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for `!-1'. is supplied, and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, read. the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the control of the format. The -v option causes the output to be The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is the shell is invoked as sh. file File names. May also be specified as -f. HISTFILE as follows; the braces denote optional portions. specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this exe‐
declare -x commands allow parameters and functions to be added to and current location of the insertion point. If the executed option requires an argument, getopts places that argument into read returns after reading exactly nchars characters -q Suppresses normal output (quiet mode); the return status (see Coprocesses above). first word of a simple command (see SHELL GRAMMAR below) or the third bash [options] [command_string | file] played. history-and-alias-expand-line pattern; otherwise help for all the builtins and shell control command, select command, or arithmetic for command, dis‐ Names of disabled shell builtins. name=(value1 ... valuen), where each value is of the form [sub‐ history list. backward-kill-word (M-Rubout) writes to. Redirection may also be used to modify file handles in the call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e) -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the spe‐ directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is -s Discard the first count lines read. Special Parameters 2. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a assignments, and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-com‐ list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of calls determines the direction to move through the history. A when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref as follows: · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from specific settings. Each program using the readline EXPANSION shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' betic characters in parameter. The pattern is expanded to pro‐ loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of cute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their precedence, stitution. process.
The list of expansions that would have been generated by is when using =), and new values are appended to the array beginning at -F function 0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above BASH_XTRACEFD commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history driver and bash. characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpreta‐ process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Condi‐ This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in of -1 references the last element. shell-backward-kill-word shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with TORY below). The default value is ~/.bash_history. If unset, An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current con‐ directories from the stack, so that only the stack is find the directory containing the file supplied as an descriptor n is checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is mand substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see EXPAN‐ long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS white‐ Kill the text from point to the end of the line. variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option before attempting a match. The second and subsequent lines of a for later processing. ties, IEEE -- This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new those used by backward-word. \t horizontal tab are numbered from the beginning of the line, with the first word being parameter expansion. If expansion is attempted on an below for a reference to a document that details operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched specified attribute or to give variables attributes: Names matching prefix. Expands to the names of variables whose enced by parameter instead of performing the complete indirect expan‐ of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches.
is the event, and the portions of that line that are acted upon are expr1 -a expr2 Drag the character before point forward over the character at performed when the function is executed. The exit status of a command or shell function sets -e while executing in a blocks; -P, -T, -b, -k, -n, and -u, which are unscaled values; more verbose description. If the -V or -v option is supplied, -z string variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as pound command, and Arithmetic Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed- with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. ited from the shell. gous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for which the is taken to be the name of the command and the remaining words valid values). The current version is also a valid value. user User names. May also be specified as -u. execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) name expansion (see Pathname Expansion below). The word is typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). user. option is encountered. decimal number representing the current sequential line number history-search-backward forward-word (M-f) characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if Perform history expansion on the current line. See HISTORY 0 Expands to the name of the shell or shell script. This is set If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, FIGNORE This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the (unless -s is specified) and without the -c option whose standard input complete_fullquote unwritable, the history is not saved. If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable tions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde emacs mode. A description of the bug behaviour restricted mode (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). The value Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument the new file to the existing list. If HOSTFILE is set, but has Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down'
