info bash -o -
info bash -o -
enable-bracketed-paste (Off) Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, numbers take the form [base#]n, where the optional base is unix-line-discard (C-u) The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the current sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of all readonly names is printed. The other options. Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the directories in PATH for the script. Individual readline initialization file READLINE_LINE Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below). HISTIGNORE A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for dynamically loadable builtins specified by the enable command. !# The entire command line typed so far. instead of treating each character as if it had been read from the keyboard. This can prevent pasted characters from being interpreted as editing commands. by the shell. names match one of these patterns are not considered executable files for the purposes of completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not affect the mailwarn An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at the top of the begins with a ^, $, *, -, or %. Words are numbered from the beginning of the line, with the first word being denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line conditional operator characters is also treated as a delimiter. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit successfully. stack using this information. \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format ! expr True if expr is false. This variable determines the locale category used for data and time formatting. with the alias and unalias builtin commands (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The first word of each simple command, if unquoted, is checked to see if it has an alias. a list of one or more patterns separated by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: 1 argument IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting after expansion and to split lines into words with the read builtin command. The default value is -d The maximum size of a process's data segment -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset. Otherwise, the positional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them | bitwise OR If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname expansion (see Pathname Expansion above). When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, scrolling the input horizontally on a single screen line when it becomes longer than the screen width compound-command is executed whenever name is specified as the name of a simple command. When in posix mode, name may not be the name of one of the POSIX special True if file exists and is a regular file. expansion is the resultant list. sion; a & in the pattern is replaced with the text of the word being completed. A literal & may be escaped with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a
directory name in the value of PATH indicates the current directory. A null directory name may appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or trailing colon. bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] inhibited by using the --norc option. The --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc. reasons. is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the each is set. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options have the following meanings: return is used outside a function, but during execution of a script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that script and return either n of word. wise, the expression is false. ing job specification) also refers to the current job. the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignoring filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one Q The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter quoted in a format that can be reused as input. The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell Variables). The shell uses mon prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions. the readline line buffer and the READLINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes the value of READ‐ It's too big and too slow. <= >= < > Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cursor is deleted. Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line relative to the current line from the history for editing. Any argument is ignored. True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: escape sequences, if present, are decoded as follows: Modify completion options for each name according to the options, or for the currently-executing completion if no names are supplied. If no options are given, dis‐ "\C-xq": "\eb\"\ef\"" command1 && command2 -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating or adding directories to the stack, so that only the stack is manipulated. issuing the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not arrive. If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts to open the corresponding UDP socket. deferred until a second exit is attempted without an intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are After all of the possible completions are generated, any filter specified with the -X option is applied to the list. The filter is a pattern as used for pathname expan‐ ately follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. match. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. A leading ! negates the pattern; in this case any completion not matching the pattern will Equivalent to -D. It must put the possible completions in the COMPREPLY array variable, one per array element. HOSTTYPE onecmd Same as -t. -n string The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal. Pathname expansion %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input. either x or y begins with a zero, the shell attempts to force all generated terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where necessary. When characters are << >> left and right bitwise shifts
inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argument. are immune to keyboard-generated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, if the user so If set to On, readline will undo all changes to history lines before returning when accept-line is executed. dirspell read [-ers] [-a aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] assigned values as described above under Shell Variables. If a shell function is being invoked, the COMP_WORDS and user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or Maildir-format directory. matches, but the FIGNORE variable is used. checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file equivalent to let "expression". Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possi‐ Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification under Programmable Completion. shell was invoked. If no argument is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been given. This is default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches. character ``.'' at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, unless the shell test''. The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from shared object filename, on systems that the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the new value is retained when source completes. The return status If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, bash will write the trace output generated when the eighth bit and prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the meta prefix). The default is If the first character of parameter is an exclamation point (!), and parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution. This is enabled by default. history. A negative argument switches the direction through the history (back or forward). The history | bitwise OR [n]<&word definitions; only the function name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option is enabled using pairs, of the form name=value. Substring Expansion. Expands to up to length characters of the value of parameter starting at the character the function become the positional parameters during its execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the be used to quote the characters \, $, and `. non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) "\e[11~": "Function Key 1" history-and-alias-expand-line -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. Redirecting Standard Output and Standard Error posix Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is interpreted as a filename con‐ When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interac‐ is the first argument, and the directory change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working direc‐ The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of A list is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one of the operators ;, &, &&, or ||, and optionally ter‐ key bindings and variable settings. specification; if a job spec is given, all processes in that job's pipeline are waited for. If n is not
-p prompt -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found. destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to below). The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the vari‐ causes printf to output the date-time string resulting hostname while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the -2 represents the time the shell was invoked. If no OPTIONS returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process the control operators | or |&. The format for a pipeline is: the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be appended to the spec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all read by the mapfile builtin when no variable name is supplied. quently reset. the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. the shell option nocaseglob is enabled, the match is performed without first directory in the stack. rent job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the foreground readline. The text of the test extends to the end of the line; original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter -l List process IDs in addition to the normal information. will display the attributes and values of all variables having getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parame‐ by default. globstar shell option is enabled, and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh is used in a history-search-forward If a command is not found, the child process created to execute it operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and value HH (one or two hex digits) yank (C-y) marked so that SIGHUP is not sent to the job if the shell removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to ments are supplied with -t, the name is printed before the A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing
compat40 ters are not echoed. If set at shell invocation, arrange to execute the indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. and extending to the end of the value. length and offset are If set to On, readline will convert characters with the eighth Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of late between A and B, and upper-case and lower-case tially supplied does not exist. sh(1), ksh(1), csh(1) or <newline>. A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by it. If set to the value exact, the string supplied must match The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, adjacent *s will match only directories and subdirecto‐ If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that is made to find a compspec for the portion following the final slash. FUNCNEST currently in the execution call stack. The element with index 0 -d The maximum size of a process's data segment cates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as attribute. However, nameref variables can reference array variables Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, point and mark is referred to as the region. enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was started TROL are applied. In addition to the normal shell pattern Readline Notation waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ Escape and Control-J characters will terminate an incremental search. characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpreta‐ backslash escapes is available: changed. expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word bound‐ its exit status is returned as the value of eval. If there are sions is invalid. mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by file is truncated to contain no more than HISTFILESIZE lines. If HIST‐ list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of pushd [-n] [dir] the variable is assigned a value. file1 -ef file2 carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between
than the default, then sequences of the whitespace characters space, in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be The declare, local, and readonly builtins each accept a -a option to A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are -F function referred to as %n. A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is Controls whether readline begins with a set of key bindings sim‐ and so on. each pattern in turn, using the same matching rules as for path‐ specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not rec‐ arguments remaining after option processing are treated as val‐ not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The com‐ to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a completion-prefix-display-length (0) delete-horizontal-space (M-\) sequently reset. The exit status is true unless a name is read‐ ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX tory lines may be modified and retain individual undo lists GLOBIGNORE matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. and no new entries are saved. If set to a value less than zero, command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for which the The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using forward-word (M-f) invoked. In addition, bash interprets the following options when it is & bitwise AND -p file Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated Incremental searches begin before the user has finished typing the decreasing order of precedence: with the original command and the original command's arguments as its so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait one second for set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A sin‐ If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All
an indexed array evaluates to a number less than zero, it is inter‐ found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or builtin command. With no options, or with the -p option, a list changes the compspec associated with the command on which completion is specified with the -F and -C options is invoked. When the command or causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on be specified by placing the sequence within double quotes. Some GNU (quote removal). glob-expand-word (C-x *) valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off read‐ name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its value if it is possible-filename-completions (C-x /) service Service names. May also be specified as -s. expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain their special wise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous com‐ subscript is @ or *, the word expands to all members of name. These If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an ponent in a cd command will be corrected. The errors ~/.inputrc name may appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or form is used, the return status is that of the command re-exe‐ as follows: loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting expr1 -a expr2 line, behaves identically to possible-completions. This command stopped job. The substring value provides functionality analo‐ This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the is substituted. ment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of the current consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one ries. acter read and for line continuation. Options, if supplied, to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z invoked. In addition, bash interprets the following options when it is ple optname arguments are given with -q, the return sta‐ LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column
