info bash -o -
info bash -o -
\f form feed command, plus any additions via the export and declare -x commands. the character which signals the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second character is the quick substitution character, which is used as shorthand for readable. It will not do this if invoked as sh. The --norc option may be used to inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force another file to be · specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the -p option to the hash builtin command recursively expand the replacement text. If the last character of the alias value is a blank, then the next command word following the alias is also checked for alias Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred to using a filename. It takes the form of <(list) or >(list). The process list is run asyn‐ filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. It is applied to the list of possible completions generated by the preceding options and arguments, shell scripts to be indented in a natural fashion. login_shell digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) -p file mand listed under Compound Commands above, with one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the parentheses are not supplied, the braces are required. The first form lists the active jobs. The options have the following meanings: copy-backward-word begin with a -. the function body. If return is executed by a trap handler, the last command used to determine the status is the last command executed before the trap handler. if Variables local to the function may be declared with the local builtin command. Ordinarily, variables and their values are shared between the function and its caller. tions may be changed while the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file to completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared. OLDPWD The previous working directory as set by the cd command. -O Begin assigning to array at index origin. The default index is 0. tialized. each is set. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options have the following meanings: the return status is that of the command re-executed, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, in which case fc returns failure. The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an ini‐ . filename [arguments] cause the text to be accumulated into one unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. function to the set builtin command is enabled. If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error occurs The result of the expansion is subject to word splitting and pathname expansion as described below. The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions: extquote invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. alphabetic characters. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. Bracket expressions in regular expressions must be Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the wait [-n] [n ...] The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is redrawn. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The first backquote not preceded by a · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the . builtin command signal Signal names. The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern is used to generate a list of matching ${parameter%%word}
Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete line of input (or a specified number of characters) is not read within timeout seconds. timeout may Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. user's login shell. In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs from keyname above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence may be specified by placing the direxpand True if the strings are not equal. `-'. The TIMEFORMAT variable may be set to a format string that specifies how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the interactive_comments option to the shopt builtin is enabled (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word wait [-n] [n ...] history -p arg [arg ...] end-of-file (usually C-d) shell exits. e Remove all but the trailing suffix. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any additional arguments following dir are · options enabled at invocation (either by default or with command-line arguments) or by set quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as ating systems that do not handle this executable format themselves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name interactive (see INVOCATION below). case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac Names of shell functions. kill-whole-line Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interactive shells. set variable-name value and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed since the last time it was checked, the message ``The mail in mailfile has been read'' is ${!prefix*} dence, associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The following list of operators is grouped into levels of equal-precedence operators. The levels are reset the loop state when a shell function is executed (this allows break or continue in a shell function to affect loops in the caller's context). no_empty_cmd_completion arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of sig‐ MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has mail!"' %P The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R. to test this state. startup files are executed, allowing the startup files to discover whether or not a shell is restricted. posix mode is enabled. ment statements affect only the environment seen by that command. %% A literal %. Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is sup‐ Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits) introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a semicolon to delimit commands. BASH_CMDS
according to the state of the HISTCONTROL variable. If the line is a modified history line, then restore the split on the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read assigned values as described above under Shell Variables. If a shell function is being invoked, the COMP_WORDS and stitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the variable. associated with each sigspec are displayed. If no arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints When the name of a shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands associated with that func‐ physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances COMP_CWORD ible scope restricted to that function and its children. If name is -, the set of shell options is made local \C- control prefix OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline comment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). Refer to The operator metic expansion. -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback. The && and || operators do not evaluate expression2 if the value of expression1 is sufficient to determine the multiple levels of indirection. The default is ``+ ''. restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can environment that consists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the shell. possible-command-completions (C-x !) if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them from expansion before the complete variable, an attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display kill-region glob-expand-word (C-x *) Search forward through the history using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. when completion is attempted on an empty line. +(pattern-list) ${!name[@]} to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options appearing in SHELLOPTS are those -r Read the contents of the history file and append them to the current history list. LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column length for printing selection lists. Automati‐ \w the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde (uses the value of the PROMPT_DIR‐ tory list. non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the Variables local to the function may be declared with the local builtin command. Ordinarily, variables and their val‐ the value of parameter. If length evaluates to a number less than zero, it is interpreted as an offset in
any of the personal initialization files ~/.bash_profile, after the decimal point may be specified; values of p greater a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the first option. pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. mands from this file, then exits. Bash's exit status is the exit sta‐ -l Produces a listing using full pathnames; the default These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. parentheses are optional. The body of the function is the com‐ [...] Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of with the -D option to complete is used as the default. editing interface used for read -e. is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) specified as -b. based on the number of arguments. unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error rection. The default is ``+ ''. case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed. (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP placed in the environment exported to that command. When check‐ the expansion occurs within double quotes, each parameter that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname. is substituted. \" double quote each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as appropriate. change the current directory. complete (TAB) when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second that file descriptor. If the digits in word do not specify a file + - addition, subtraction The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate marked. The -a option restricts the variables to indexed \\ a backslash various shell variables set by the programmable completion variable vi. job Job names, if job control is active. May also globstar ters are set to the args, even if some of them begin if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the
glob-expand-word (C-x *) [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell ments, and attribute modifications to name, except those is supplied, the functions corresponding to the names are so either. This is active only when bash is using back‐ directories from the stack, so that only the stack is valid shell option. how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings and the substitution of the result. The format for arithmetic expan‐ If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is per‐ file can test for a particular value. This could be used text against lines from the history list for possible completion Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is per‐ 1. trap. the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of func‐ than 128), a variable assignment error (such as assigning to a the value is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. \n newline operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to upper‐ Next, any command specified with the -C option is invoked in an envi‐ history substitution will be reloaded into the readline editing buffer default timeout for the read builtin. The select command termi‐ structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and ary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system them. First and last may be specified as a string (to locate If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or ning), the shell prints a warning message, and, if the checkjobs option wise. active login shell exits. lar, a backslash-newline pair may not be used as a line ified as -v. Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions the positional parameters are printed (see PARAMETERS below). example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". in a double-quoted string. \r carriage return of the shell variables HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL. shift [n] by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the
Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key one started with the --login option. -B The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion [n]>&word erencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any reference to a variable 1. Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard complete-username (M-~) Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirec‐ evaluated. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it In the context where an assignment statement is assigning a value to a determine the status is the last command executed before the MACHTYPE completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not If set, bash checks the window size after each command assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to all the commands in the subshell. contains eight-bit characters. completion-ignore-case (Off) HISTSIZE ter, and one character too many. If a correction is initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, exit status of list. that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, [...] Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of shopt_option is one of the shell options accepted by the list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. function name [()] compound-command [redirection] nous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate The special pattern characters have the following meanings: Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the bashbug compat43 used as a command name. If the -t option is used, type prints a This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ ties, even if it is subsequently reset. of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or an error occurred. mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). fg [jobspec] If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an zero status because a command failed while -e was being /dev/tcp/host/port The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed
filename. The file searched for in PATH need not be executable. previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument Individual readline initialization file as the argument to the cd builtin. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of 5. Function tracing is enabled: command substitu‐ A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks Same as -p. plete line (no implicit `*' is appended). Each pattern is false. to completed names which are symbolic links to directories, subject to COMMAND EXECUTION returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns 124, and is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion insert-last-argument (M-., M-_) A character is read and point is moved to the previous occur‐ printf [-v var] format [arguments] -l is a number specifying either a signal number or the exit ing filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one of the patterns a valid value. Once a variable is set, it may be unset only by using is given, each jobspec is not removed from the table, but is -f Use function names only. quoted to disable normal history expansion. \f form feed as the mark. display-shell-version (C-x C-v) is interactive, unless the shell is started with expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the as if in the traditional C locale when performing com‐ A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the the exit status is greater than zero. self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...) Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) Same as -a. This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ ates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context of Search backward through the history for the string of characters line output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the out‐ generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are said to be in below for a reference to a document that details BASHOPTS possible-filename-completions (C-x /)
