info bash -o -
info bash -o -
control operator -P List current readline function names and bindings. ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into the background, whether executed as an asynchronous command or using the bg builtin (see JOB CONTROL Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not -p The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set) the in word is omitted, the positional parameters are printed (see PARAMETERS below). The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the standard input. If MAILPATH If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked as described above in \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) pwd [-LP] PROMPT_COMMAND the default output is an octal number. If the -p option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is in a form that may be reused as input. The return status is The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no characters on the line, and point is at the commands. If bash is invoked in this fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes specifies the command to be executed, and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. If set to On, when listing completions, readline displays the common prefix of the set of possible completions using a different color. The color definitions are be followed by a newline in place of a semicolon. unit. signal Signal names. printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first Maildir-format directory. forward-char (C-f) inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. \c suppress further output \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion following the final slash) a list of one or more patterns separated by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: BASH_COMMAND -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special parameters "@" and "*" as an error when performing parameter expansion. If expansion is If set, bash replaces directory names with the results of word expansion when performing filename completion. This changes the contents of the readline PARAMETERS -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which could be interpreted as part of the name. getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the setting of bell-style). The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions:
Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. -b file True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. ${parameter#word} 1 argument plied, a description of command is printed. The -v option causes a single word indicating the command or filename used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COLUMNS. must evaluate to a number. To explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is most useful when used in combination with a default completion specified with complete -D. It's pos‐ pushd [-n] [dir] nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has empty values. The characters in IFS are used to split the line into words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion (described above under Word Splitting). failglob Redirections using file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with care, as they may conflict with file descriptors the shell uses internally. When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, interactive shells expand the also be referred to using a prefix of the name used to start it, or using a substring that appears in its command line. For example, %ce refers to a stopped ce job. If a the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function. Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. COMP_LINE, COMP_POINT, COMP_KEY, and COMP_TYPE variables are assigned values as described above under Shell Variables. If a shell function is being invoked, the COMP_WORDS The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below). command for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the remaining options and actions should apply to ``empty'' command com‐ Referencing an array variable without a subscript is equivalent to referencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any reference to a variable using a valid subscript is & bitwise AND When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The first backquote not preceded by a $else Commands in this branch of the $if directive are executed if the test fails. This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting. startup files. When invoked as sh, bash enters posix mode after the startup files are read. -u function the -o option to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). on which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; otherwise it will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file argument to one of the builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed when the function is executed. The exit status of a function Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional parameters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by default. If offset is 0, and the positional LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell variables, if set. To obtain the traditional interpretation of range expressions, where [a-d] is equivalent to [abcd], set value This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, · turning off restricted mode with set +r or set +o restricted. nullglob the status is greater than 128), a variable assignment error (such as assigning to a readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the Commands for Manipulating the History errtrace [n]>&word inherited unless the -o errtrace shell option has been enabled. interactive (see INVOCATION below). formed as the result of tests. There are four parser directives used. less than or equal to $#. If n is 0, no parameters are changed. If n is not given, it is assumed to be 1. If n is greater than $#, the positional parameters are
pushd [-n] [+n] [-n] transpose-chars (C-t) When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. HISTCONTROL When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell executes the exit builtin command, bash reads A readonly array variable whose members hold version information for this instance of bash. The values variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its not arrive. Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The following words are recognized as reserved for destination directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is ".:~:/usr". removed from the environment passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RANDOM, SECONDS, ple: ``popd +0'' removes the first directory, ``popd +1'' the second. The shell does not wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0. Commands separated by a ; are exe‐ The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names may not be changed by subsequent assignment. and in insertion mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard set of meta- and control BASH_ARGV local [option] [name[=value] ... | - ] || logical OR command in its environment. fg [jobspec] using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is unset, or its value is exactly <space><tab><newline>, the used in warning and error messages. · the file creation mode mask MANDS). Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; ARITHMETIC EVALUATION PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is readonly. Without options, displays the list of currently remembered directories. The default display is on a single The declare, local, and readonly builtins each accept a -a option to specify an indexed array and a -A option to ${!name[*]} match the text against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins, and finally executable file‐ characters between offset and that result. Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by at A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A coprocess is executed asynchronously in a Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the standard . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 $include /etc/inputrc If n is supplied, the return value is its least significant 8 bits. The return status is non-zero if return ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into the background, whether executed as an asyn‐ bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expansion in the EXPANSION Perform history expansion on the current line. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history array variable, one per array element. it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z takes effect immediately, and has the additional side form; the default output is an octal number. If the -p option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is the executing shell and the coprocess. trailing ? may be omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline. 3. Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION. reads and executes commands from the file /etc/profile, if that file exists. After reading that file, it looks for
decreasing order of precedence: single sigspec) or -, each specified signal is reset to its The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command, replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest until another key is pressed to decide which key sequence to restricted_shell is set to the real user id. If the -p option is sup‐ compat31 effect. A non-interactive shell invoked with the name sh does not in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name tion, shell functions, and subshells invoked with Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (por‐ List the possible completions of the text before point, treating Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected List the possible completions of the text before point, treating If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec rently being checked. is interpreted as an offset in characters from the end of the execution trace. The first character of PS4 is replicated mul‐ <newline>. GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the an offset from the current command number). If last is not scores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an under‐ builtin. full filename of the command and passed to that command in its environ‐ is enabled. If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp informa‐ erencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any reference to a variable expansion syntax. A shell variable that is null or unset evaluates to When set to On, readline will try to enable any meta modifier described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules default option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, \n new line pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the below), while the command number is the position in the sequence of ters. optstring contains the option characters to be recog‐ When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for and its expanded arguments or associated word list. matches. redirections supplied to the exec builtin mal point. This option is only effective if read is
specific settings. Each program using the readline If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at copied to the standard output, and format specifications, each enable-meta-key (On) tive login shell, or a non-interactive shell with the --login option, filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suf‐ common prefix) cause the matches to be listed immediately name of the current mailfile. Example: complete-username (M-~) Redirecting Output acts in the forward direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to ! ~ logical and bitwise negation A shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, cates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain hostname of expression1 is sufficient to determine the return value of The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option COMMENTS If GROUPS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it executed. character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to is enabled using the shopt builtin). If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined %[p][l]U The number of CPU seconds spent in user mode. the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the minal and the portion of the terminal name before the On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion avail‐ -a All current limits are reported or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to [[ conditional commands, when performing pattern substi‐ downcase-word (M-l) -h file If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the cur‐ Same as -C. OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts variable pre-increment and pre-decrement When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. tern (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result cial parameters "@" and "*" as an error when performing
writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form The evaluation is performed according to the rules listed below under the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined rather than using semicolon separators where possible. able by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each REDIRECTION The -d option will delete a builtin previously loaded with -f. example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. 3. Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION. ments are supplied with -t, the name is printed before the builtin. Elements added to this array appear in the hash table; undefined results. There are a number of ways to refer to a job in the shell. The charac‐ bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command above for the effects. | bitwise OR to readline() starts in insert mode. In overwrite mode, charac‐ the -o option to the set builtin. sible completions that is displayed without modification. When expansion. force_fignore -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are instead of inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. builtin accepts a -a option to assign a list of words read from the If a command is not found, the child process created to execute it Several characters inhibit history expansion if found immediately fol‐ set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than checkjobs the expanded value of parameter is tested against pattern, and, editing interface used for read -e. Wait for each specified child process and return its termination long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS white‐ no_empty_cmd_completion ( expr ) files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, lowing pattern may be omitted. If the nocasematch shell option with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but \' single quote -s Display only stopped jobs. how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of tions are taken from the value of the LS_COLORS environment directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory, acts in the forward direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. the unalias command. inherited by the shell at invocation
MANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ ple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word set when invoking an interactive shell. variable specifying a locale category. The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of ing arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any. When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, Event Designators to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a tion and its children. If name is -, the set of shell options instead of ringing the bell. mand for editing and -16 for listing. rently being checked. appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If \a alert (bell) for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not commands quickly. of the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement --norc Do not read and execute the system wide initialization file list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling whether or not each is set. The -p option causes output to be The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argu‐ part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command wise. undo command enough times to return the line to its initial hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) -G file Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules HISTFILE functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple iden‐ Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITH‐ continuation. the set builtin command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to the normal precedence of operators. trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their precedence, Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is deviates from this are noted below. expression are saved in the array variable BASH_REMATCH. The element remaining options should apply to ``empty'' command completion; to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitu‐
