info bash -o -
info bash -o -
the value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name of the variable referenced by parameter instead of When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. begins with a ^, $, *, -, or %. Words are numbered from the beginning of the line, with the first word being denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line \u the username of the current user special characters that are decoded as follows: recreate the current option settings is displayed on the standard output. \n new line A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a command's description may be separated from the rest of the command by one or more newlines, and may supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale. Note that both x and y must be of the same If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > possible-command-completions (C-x !) and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will be unset rather than the variable it references. -n has no effect if the -f option is supplied. If no The -s option to the history builtin may be used to add commands to the end of the history list without actually executing them, so that they are available for subsequent The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey revert-line (M-r) \e caller [expr] % The word matched by the most recent `?string?' search. If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following description, a pattern-list is When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name. In the macro body, names will not be quoted, either. This is active only when bash is using backslashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is set by default, which dence, associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The following list of operators is grouped into levels of equal-precedence operators. The levels are -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero and variable formed from the rest of parameter as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] printed, and an exit status of false is returned. If the -p option is used, type either returns the name of the disk file that would be executed if name were speci‐ login_shell id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not supplied, these actions are taken and the effective user id is set to the real user id. stopped when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control to be returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, using the bg command to described above (Compound Commands). There is no mechanism for using arguments in the replacement text. If arguments are needed, a shell function should be used (see FUNCTIONS below). Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned to the readline completion BASH_COMMAND Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- Expands to the process ID of the current bash process. This differs from $$ under certain circumstances, such as subshells that do not require bash to be re-ini‐ Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is not present) is written to the standard prints all of the places that contain an executable named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if the -p option is not also used. The table of fully changed; false otherwise. Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline variable. Each non-option argument is a braceexpand If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp information associated with each history entry is written to the history file, marked with the history comment suspension. The return status is 0 unless the shell is a login shell and -f is not supplied, or if job control is not enabled.
the subscript is ignored. regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syn‐ character. When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the the status is greater than 128), a variable assignment error (such as assigning to a readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the tion below). \b backspace tory structure instead. By default, bash follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change the current directory. read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is encountered or read times out. Delimiter introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of bash. Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ pattern (the ``%%'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the metacharacter list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp information associated with each history entry is written to the history file, marked with the history comment -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e) file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame false, and test builtins do not accept options and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, continue, let, and shift builtins accept and process argu‐ If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default. If set, the pattern 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh used in a pathname expansion context will match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed -o comp-option bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] SHLVL Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a macro). attempting a match. The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the history regardless of the value of HISTIG‐ possible-username-completions (C-x ~) name. Bash uses a hash table to remember the full pathnames of executable files (see hash under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). A full search of the directories in PATH is form is used, writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the output of list. sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The default bash completions are not begin with a -. not require anything but string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and subscript are supplied, that index is assigned to; otherwise the index of ! expression The first form selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes them. First and last may be specified as a name from shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading. The -d option will delete a builtin previously loaded with -f. If no name arguments are complete-variable (M-$) Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is strictly textual. Bash does it should be bound. The name may be specified in one of two ways: as a symbolic key name, possibly with Meta- or Control- prefixes, or as a key sequence. -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG ${!name[*]} parameters and special parameters may not be assigned to in this way. -s Discard the first count lines read. which the integer attribute has been set, value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also evaluated. When += is If so, that word is replaced by the text of the alias. The characters /, $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters listed above may not appear
Directory names. May also be specified as -d. After any matches defined by the compspec are generated, directory name completion is to enable the arrow keys. performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for unset. command in its environment. The shell treats several parameters specially. These parameters may only be referenced; assignment to them is not status is 0. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the shell environment No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, or pathname expansion is performed of the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error message and returns an exit status of 127. in the PATH are executed. If the -p option is given, the search for command is performed using a default PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for com‐ ated completions against the word being completed is performed; the function or command has complete freedom in gen‐ tional parameters. name=[value] with a statement of the form The operator possible-variable-completions (C-x $) \t horizontal tab the while and until commands is the exit status of the last command executed in list-2, or zero if none was and creates a parameter for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child processes. Executed com‐ that the remaining options should apply to ``empty'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a -l Make bash act as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). -e The maximum scheduling priority ("nice") Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (portable object) file format. horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command specified with the -F and -C options is Array variable names. If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed history sub‐ glob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). aries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word. Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, rently does not cause aliases to be removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses its spe‐ complete (TAB) Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These options must appear on the command line before the plied, have the following meanings: of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above. The shell waits for all commands in History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat commands, the editing interface used for read -e. not store the results in the history list. Each arg must be quoted to disable normal history expan‐ onto BASH_ARGC. The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the
functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or the last command executed within the script as the exit status the list of array indices (keys) assigned in name. If name is An array variable whose members are the source filenames where If set, bash replaces directory names with the results horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the argu‐ the noclobber option to the set builtin command is not enabled, the re‐ wise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous com‐ not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The com‐ -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail. The performed, those words are subject to further word splitting and Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the to processes started by it, on systems that allow such control. replaced. If pattern begins with #, it must match at the begin‐ histreedit bered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to protect the and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than the A variant of here documents, the format is: sion; any character that falls between those two charac‐ below. If length is omitted, expands to the substring of the The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal is subsequently reset. above). number of history entries is set to the value of the HISTSIZE When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a Do not use the GNU readline library to read command lines when MAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell | bitwise OR various shell variables set by the programmable completion The following variables are used by the shell. In some cases, bash · setting or unsetting the values of SHELL, PATH, ENV, or BASH_ENV the list is a valid argument for the -s option to the shopt reverse-search-history (C-r) line. -c If the -c option is present, then commands are read from the relative to the current line from the history for editing. Any when the format string is displayed.
$((expression)) >word 2>&1 arrays. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If shell functions. eval [arg ...] invalid option is supplied. that may be reused as input. If a variable name is followed by of the resultant list which match the word being com‐ -d Display a short description of each pattern ognize time as a reserved word if the next token begins with a `-'. ing input, so that several metacharacter-separated words surrounded by tus greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed. mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} If set to On, the history code attempts to place point at the and the character _. (see description of compat31) and the effect of inter‐ command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...] -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ plied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias played with a preceding asterisk (*). effect. A non-interactive shell invoked with the name sh does not TORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion character, usually !, must descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split to that job. In output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the commands read from the standard input or from a file. Bash also incor‐ -C If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with source, and source unsets the DEBUG trap while it executes. If the loop state when a shell function is executed (this read -e. startup files. This variable is read-only. the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a vari‐ [n]>&digit- single sigspec) or -, each specified signal is reset to its interactive shells expand the ENV variable and commands are read and value and zero or more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the It is not an error to use 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh if there is just one word in the ${parameter,,pattern} fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] -a file replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the HISTCMD The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is The && and || operators do not evaluate expression2 if the value
being entered. tory substitution are not immediately passed to the scripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is applied 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are new value is retained when source completes. The return status Kill the text from point to the end of the line. compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name] list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option coproc [NAME] command [redirections] Each command in a pipeline is executed as a separate process (i.e., in Display version information about the current instance of bash. callback] [-c quantum] [array] kill-whole-line HISTCMD classes defined in the POSIX standard: Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' ferent colors to indicate their file type. The color defini‐ True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. A list is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one of the Control-G will abort an incremental search and restore the original Toggle overwrite mode. With an explicit positive numeric argu‐ ing on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a shell with \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name Off if the locale contains eight-bit characters. name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its value if it is names in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIGNORE. ments may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, \a alert (bell) only if the second argument is null. If the first argu‐ The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. also performed. Consequently, one may use filenames with tildes in even if ``type -t name'' would not return file. If a command is given. When more than one resource is specified, the limit name \a alert (bell) list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, con‐ completion-ignore-case (Off) -o comp-option If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about lastpipe
-r Read the contents of the history file and append them to will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. Of the two forms, the first is preferred. This is semantically equiva‐ When available, process substitution is performed simultaneously with export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration commands). ignoreeof those used by backward-word. -t timeout cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory com‐ performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes is escaped using a \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc. word. auto_resume stitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the shell-backward-word Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expan‐ A case command first expands word, and tries to match it against help [-dms] [pattern] \? question mark bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] attribute cannot be applied to array variables. passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RAN‐ -s Discard the first count lines read. tion, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each Arithmetic expansion allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression -n Read the history lines not already read from the history spec's behavior beyond the simple generation of comple‐ -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. as follows; the braces denote optional portions. -n Give each name the nameref attribute, making it a name mands). On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the vari‐ collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the cur‐ Parameters represented by the numbers $# down to $#-n+1 are directory status. ${parameter%word} have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the the last command executed within the script as the exit status all the commands in the subshell.
