info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The history builtin may be used to dis‐ ${parameter%word} defined for each name whose value is given. A trailing space in value causes the next word to be checked for alias substitution when the alias is expanded. For A list is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one of the operators ;, &, &&, or ||, and optionally terminated by one of ;, &, or <newline>. Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for writing on file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor Delete all spaces and tabs around point. insert-last-argument (M-., M-_) above). This option is enabled by default. filenames for possible completions. tors listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is true if the unary test is true. If the first argument is not a valid unary conditional value. The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables. If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ conditional command's =~ operator and locale-specific If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero to a value less than zero, the number of history entries is not limited. By default, the number of history entries is set to the value of the HISTSIZE shell vari‐ -m Display the description of each pattern in a manpage-like format names as described below under Tilde Expansion in the EXPANSION section. The version number of bash When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the full filename of the command and passed to that command in its environment. \0nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits) $((expression)) -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) True if file exists and is a block special file. MAILCHECK is omitted, the current value of the soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is given. When more than one resource is specified, the limit name \d the date in "Weekday Month Date" format (e.g., "Tue May 26") read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read regard to the case of alphabetic characters. The return value is 0 if the string matches (==) or does not match (!=) the pattern, and 1 otherwise. Any part of the pattern If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is unchanged. Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables. Any variable may be used as an indexed array; the declare builtin will explicitly declare an array. term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by the terminal's function keys. The word on unix-line-discard (C-u) given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other option arguments, the list consists of all enabled shell builtins. If -n If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin. Individual array elements may be assigned to using the name[subscript]=value syntax introduced above. When assigning Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string, any remembered search mailwarn If set to On, history lines that have been modified are displayed with a preceding asterisk (*). into the inputrc would make M-C-u execute the readline command universal-argument. COMP_WORDBREAKS as described above. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Comple‐ command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of the last command executed in the promptvars When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name of a key spelled out in English. For example: list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is is the status of the last command exited within the script (0 if no commands are executed), and false if filename is not found or cannot be read. Move to the end of the line.
If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts to open the corresponding UDP socket. If set, command substitution inherits the value of the errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell environment. This option is enabled when & Repeat the previous substitution. nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. this is ``r="fc -s"'', so that typing ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command. When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the full filename of the command and passed to that command in its environment. magic-space %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is saved in the variable REPLY. The zero otherwise. The exit status is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded. Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete key sequence using the input read so option changes the output format to that specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not recognize time as a reserved word if the next token begins with a value of parameter, then the result of the expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest matching pattern (the ``%'' case) or the longest matching expr?expr:expr This variable determines the locale used to translate double-quoted strings preceded by a $. undo (C-_, C-x C-u) Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. shell-backward-word sion. Each character in the expanded value of parameter is tested against pattern, and, if it matches the pattern, its case is converted. The pattern should not If set, and readline is being used, bash will not attempt to search the PATH for possible completions when completion is attempted on an empty line. SYNOPSIS gnu_errfmt yank (C-y) --restricted command name. An array variable whose members are the source filenames where the corresponding shell function names in the FUNCNAME array variable are defined. The shell function Individual readline initialization file 2 arguments COMP_LINE, COMP_POINT, COMP_KEY, and COMP_TYPE variables are assigned values as described above under Shell Variables. If a shell function is being invoked, the COMP_WORDS individual undo lists across calls to readline. completion-map-case (Off) ${parameter%%word} Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal width when printing selection lists. Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an rent input line, or fix errors in previous commands quickly. $endif If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the specified interpreter on oper‐ return file. If a command is hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is used, type Insert the character typed. commands. If bash is invoked in this fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remembered 0 Expands to the name of the shell or shell script. This is set at shell initialization. If bash is invoked with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that corresponding list is executed. If the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes exe‐ TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input after \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ Variables below.
E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter with backslash escape sequences expanded as tion name is executed. Functions are executed in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to below, or, if the -o option is used, those available with the -o option to the set builtin command. With no If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is interpreted as a filename con‐ causes printf to output the date-time string resulting from using datefmt as a format string for strf‐ turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of the shell. The current set of a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes is escaped If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, and the return status is 0. popd returns BASH_ENV This is semantically equivalent to If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the Bash allows the current readline key bindings to be displayed or modified with the bind builtin command. The editing command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to the following conditions. a numeric value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. tion is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign Equivalent to -l. isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G option are generated next. The words generated in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is replaced with If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion without any possible partial completion (the If the huponexit shell option has been set with shopt, bash sends a SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. -p The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set) mands). When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or more instances of the command shell are ignored Incremented by one within each subshell or subshell environment when the shell begins executing in that envi‐ Within [ and ], character classes can be specified using the syntax [:class:], where class is one of !string The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The set of expanded words is printed -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. least one space to avoid being confused with the :- expansion. (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. execfail ors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read before the delimiter. sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait one second The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The -r option reverses the order of the commands. an exception to the usual printf behavior. tilde-prefix as an argument. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number without a
arrival of mail in the specified file or Maildir-format direc‐ Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as taining an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to be quoted to prevent history expansion. -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. The hostname. +B option or disable brace expansion with the +B option to the set com‐ declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] word completion is attempted is described above under Program‐ completion specifications are printed in a way that allows them these files exist. This may be inhibited by using the --norc option. tory substitution are not immediately passed to the extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been replaced. If pattern begins with #, it must match at the begin‐ given the export attribute and marked for export to the blanks and newlines. shell variable. text ``> output'' into the line). using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was sup‐ the nameref variable will be unset. shell function as its first argument, running commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to the defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving tion name. In the macro body, the backslash escapes described above File descriptor 0 is duplicated. operator is considered a pattern and matched according to the rules An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source ~/.bash_profile Without options, remove each jobspec from the table of active beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignor‐ mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name] context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands facilities, while available, will not have useful values. pathname expansion result in an expansion error. nected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is shorthand Aliases are expanded when a function definition is read, not when the put was redirected to dirlist. -A action not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The com‐ to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references,
When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented simple command, if unquoted, is checked to see if it has an alias. If If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs Insert the last argument to the previous command (the last word the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side expansion of the special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ (see Special Parameters find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v but the value of the PATH variable is not used to search for the file‐ for the given resource. A hard limit cannot be increased by a popd [-n] [+n] [-n] ASCII characters will collate together. option-name, a series of set commands to recreate the by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell the current bash session, but not already appended to the daemon, usually rshd, or the secure shell daemon sshd. If bash deter‐ grammable Completion above) are enabled. This option is MAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and To find other matching entries in the history list, type Control-S or nounset Same as -u. equivalent to -l. kill returns true if at least one signal was result of the expression is the result of the binary test specified with the -F and -C options is invoked. When the command or following words are recognized as reserved when unquoted and either the not execute the file specified as an argument to the ior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose When a variable value is read, empty or null values, "on" (case-insen‐ and &, which have equal precedence. input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. digit is closed after [n]>&digit- attempt to search the PATH for possible completions when length for printing selection lists. Automatically set if the histappend rections take effect in the current shell, and the return status set to the saved position, and the old cursor position is saved user typed. literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is sup‐ line, behaves identically to possible-completions. This command
first -. This allows sun to match both sun and sun-cmd, command. saved in the history list. A value of ignoredups causes lines the standard output. If the invocation option is +O, the ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into builtin command. The default value is ``<space><tab><new‐ shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to tus is zero if all optnames are enabled; non-zero other‐ status since the user was last notified of their status. = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= key the terminal claims to support when it is called. On many ing input, so that several metacharacter-separated words surrounded by transpose-words (M-t) minal and the portion of the terminal name before the waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ HOSTTYPE and false otherwise. editing-mode (emacs) the command arguments, if any. be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not (Arrays). fied file descriptor, non-zero otherwise. The exit sta‐ >>word 2>&1 entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets · using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell -v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, pre‐ The action may be one of the following to generate a \v vertical tab The bash executable process. reference to another variable. That other variable is the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not supplied, no startup value is printed before each command bash displays during an getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more end of input to the shell. If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp informa‐ than the default, then sequences of the whitespace characters space, nnn (one to three digits) completion is attempted. at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is nnn (zero to three octal digits) DEFINITIONS - + unary minus and plus dard input. ${parameter:=word}
mand were executed: them. First and last may be specified as a string (to locate performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the history file. tem on which bash is executing. The default is system-depen‐ semicolon. builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). keyword Same as -k. Rs are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to stitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded If set to On, a character denoting a file's type as reported by REDIRECTION When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the index is 0. blanks) is seen. All of the lines read up to that point are then used The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See name of the current mailfile. Example: as a single string of characters, instead of treating each char‐ bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test tory builtin may be used to display or modify the history list and FUNCNEST sists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inher‐ completions are retrieved from the value of the COMPRE‐ Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job put was redirected to dirlist. shopt below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the Enclosing characters in single quotes preserves the literal value of standard output. a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'. bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell user typed. completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not To find other matching entries in the history list, type Control-S or The exit status is 0 if input is available on the speci‐ within double quotes, each variable name expands to a separate Control- prefixes, or as a key sequence. tory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is select is the exit status of the last command executed in list, with the original command and the original command's arguments as its one, so executing this function the first time makes the argu‐ point and mark is referred to as the region.
