info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable. Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These options must appear on the command line before the single-character options to be recognized. formed as the result of tests. There are four parser directives used. history -d offset Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or any of the personal initialization files ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, that case. Fetch the previous command from the history list, moving back in the list. above). This option is enabled by default. interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. pathname to which each name corresponds is printed. If multiple name arguments are supplied with -t, the name is printed before the hashed full pathname. The -l type [-aftpP] name [name ...] -q Suppresses normal output (quiet mode); the return status indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multiple optname arguments are given with -q, the Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to character of optstring is not a colon. OPTERR If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). OPTERR is initialized to 1 each If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell pletion below). Each array element contains one possible completion. This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE. Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding elements in BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE to describe the call Parameter Expansion The individual per-interactive-shell startup file physical let arg [arg ...] A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. $(command) COMP_WORDBREAKS When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If it does, other redirection operators apply (see Duplicating File Descriptors below) for compatibility Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. Same as -p. service Service names. May also be specified as -s. e Remove all but the trailing suffix. $((expression)) lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it. Equivalent to -l. dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the new current working directory as if it had been supplied as the argument to the cd builtin. must be quoted to disable normal history expansion. There are a number of ways to refer to a job in the shell. The character % introduces a job specification (jobspec). Job number n may be referred to as %n. A job may The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in turn, and list is executed each visible-stats (Off) cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory component in a cd command will be corrected. The errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing
-i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when the variable is assigned a value. -l List the names of all readline functions. Individual readline initialization file Pathname Expansion command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero. downcase-word (M-l) is reset to its original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the -s Enable (set) each optname. -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution. This is enabled by default. mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if array is not an indexed array. BASH_LOADABLES_PATH COMP_LINE This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. far, or can take additional input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but complete key A short script or `recipe' which exercises the bug progcomp alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a. colored-stats (Off) \n new line \v vertical tab Readline Command Names test expr value of the variable NAME_PID. The wait builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate. subshell environment when one is created. The return status is false if any sigspec is invalid; otherwise trap returns true. ately by a newline. Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero exit status indicates failure. When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name of a key spelled out in English. For example: For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following default completion function would This determines when the user is queried about viewing the number of possible completions generated by the possible-completions command. It may be set to any inte‐ glob-list-expansions (C-x g) argument to -l is a number specifying either a signal number or the exit status of a process terminated by a signal. The -L option is equivalent to -l. kill but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and bash does not try to builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed when the function is executed. The exit status of a function The compiler used to compile M-Control-u: universal-argument This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words which have more than one possible auto_resume tions may be changed while the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file to pushd [-n] [dir] \\ a backslash -n Display information only about jobs that have changed status since the user was last notified of their status.
job Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as -j. -w file assignments attempts to assign a value to a readonly variable, an error occurs, and the command exits with a non-zero expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as FIGNORE If set to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it will not strip the eighth bit from the charac‐ -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The following words are recognized as reserved @ Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, each Perform history and alias expansion on the current line. True if file exists. Matches one of the given patterns unlimited, which stand for the current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively. If NAME Same as -C. builtin is invoked. bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named pro‐ is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. Non-numeric values and numeric values less than zero When a positional parameter consisting of more than a single digit is expanded, it must be enclosed in braces (see stitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the variable. expansion, normally `!'. The second character is the quick substitution character, which is used as shorthand EXECIGNORE with those options or allow them to be specified. The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arith‐ \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion following the final slash) time(3). The corresponding argument is an integer representing the number of seconds since the epoch. value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first characters on an input line Move to the start of the current line. able. Shell Variables PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is readonly. forward-backward-delete-char A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of the control operators | or |&. The format for a Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed BASHPID job. -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test not executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack. Without options, the name and value of each shell variable are displayed in a format that can be reused as %(datefmt)T readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array] getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting
defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and modified at the global scope, even when declare is executed in a the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an transpose-chars (C-t) string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the magic-space = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= set. If parameter is @, an indexed array subscripted by @ or *, one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. It If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. foreground. Similarly, ``%1 &'' resumes job 1 in the background, Copy the word following point to the kill buffer. The word of machine on which bash is executing. The default is system- File descriptor 1 is duplicated. current options are printed. If +o is supplied with no single sigspec) or -, each specified signal is reset to its A description of the bug behaviour the primaries described below under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value null, the parameters are joined without intervening separators. builtins any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described generate the list of possible completions for the word. If the command *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched parisons. That is, the current locale's collating shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any Provides control over the resources available to the shell and Bash Reference Manual, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey jobs -x command [ args ... ] An interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments is given, the commands are listed on standard output. Other‐ an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one arrayvar out expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by
the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the program‐ · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the argument may be used to move backward through the list. This strings they output. If a numeric argument is supplied, the the -o option to the set builtin. On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the vari‐ function and its caller. Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line. The -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, case insensitive and the SIG prefix is optional. ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, tilde-expand (M-&) tion. if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported active shells. (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to aliases in the form alias name=value on standard output. When Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file array before assigning to it. is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts The optional l specifies a longer format, including minutes, of is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ HISTORY. This option is on by default in inter‐ is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. or no matches were generated. If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as the dol‐ BASH_XTRACEFD unit. delimiter given the export attribute and marked for export to the ber, or one of the special characters listed below under Special Param‐ necessary to preserve syntactic correctness. The lithist shell option fully. If the reserved word ! precedes a pipeline, the exit status of options, which may be any option accepted by the complete \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing The two or three characters which control history expansion and variable. Negative arguments have no effect. part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be
Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at expands to the process ID of the current shell, not the sub‐ it the full pathname of the current user's login shell. but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit another file to be read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A plied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not moves n positions forward in the list of matches; a negative Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs expansion of the items following in results in an empty list, no If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and only be referenced; assignment to them is not allowed. appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an possible-username-completions (C-x ~) tus of the last command executed, or zero if no condition tested case of alphabetic characters. The return value is 0 if the string to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, commands to save in a history list. The text of the last HISTSIZE com‐ This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the sion. The exceptions to this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and \e current option settings is displayed on the standard tion of an existing stopped job. There is no ambiguity allowed; expands to a separate word. That is, "$@" is equivalent to "$1" characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpreta‐ the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automati‐ following words are recognized as reserved when unquoted and either the ited in such cases. BASH_SOURCE The special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ have special meaning when in double sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed other options have been applied. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If arguments remaining after option processing are treated as val‐ the first word of a simple command. The shell maintains a list of strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each dis‐ unix-line-discard (C-u) noclobber This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and indexed arrays are interpreted as described above. Care must be taken
dard input. allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. The -s option indicates that the remaining options and actions should of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are -k. below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that is unset or null. HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands are not saved in /etc/bash.bashrc and the personal initialization file ~/.bashrc attribute is disabled. \t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format Bash can be configured to supply a default value for this vari‐ any effect until the compound command or the command compat40 stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to start arguments remaining after option processing are treated as val‐ If set, bash does not print a warning message if an Omitting the colon results in a test only for a parameter that is line, behaves identically to possible-completions. This command gnu.bash.bug. readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] mand. This option is only used by interactive shells. the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: which have more than one possible completion without any possi‐ entries from the list. The current directory is always the /etc/profile If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive evaluated. When += is applied to an array variable using compound · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a act in a backward direction. Commands whose behavior with arguments Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric referred to as %n. A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the nameref single pattern will match all files and zero or more attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text that precede the command name. marked so that SIGHUP is not sent to the job if the shell p Print the new command but do not execute it. even if ``type -t name'' would not return file. If a command is Appending Standard Output and Standard Error readline is being used, history substitutions are not immediately turn, and list is executed each time. If the in word is omit‐
