info bash -o -
info bash -o -
True if string1 sorts after string2 lexicographically. command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). Refer to are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any arguments remaining after option processing are treated as values for the positional parameters and are In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs from keyname above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence may be specified by placing the The version number of bash True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not. Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. disabled %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. shell with history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled (see the description of an output error occurs. If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is the empty file /dev/null. Otherwise, the invoked command $endif If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. plied, have the following meanings: alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a. ${parameter^pattern} PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs bash. A common value is ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin: Same as -C. sourcepath A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing case or [[ conditional commands, when performing pattern being printed to the standard output. mand to abort. An AND list has the form (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT below). Variable assignments and builtin commands that affect the shell's environment If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled using the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning is frame 0. The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack. 1 argument the history builtin. If this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history \\ backslash is reset to its original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the BASH_REMATCH next-history (C-n) Array variables may not (yet) be exported. If set to On, readline will convert characters with the eighth bit set to an ASCII key sequence by stripping the eighth bit and prefixing an escape character (in BASH_SUBSHELL In this example, C-u is again bound to the function universal-argument. C-x C-r is bound to the function re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is bound to insert the text possible-filename-completions (C-x /) output-meta (Off) There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions of sh, mostly because of the POSIX specification.
a word. If enabled, readline does not insert characters from the completion that match characters after point in the word being completed, so portions of the word When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. HISTORY unix-filename-rubout Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. Arithmetic Expansion True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of options under the description of the -o option to the set builtin below. Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, any existing history entries are deleted and no new entries are saved. If set Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is not present) is written to the standard -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory \t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format The current command line. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Program‐ Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with the unalias command. Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric argument, save the deleted text on the kill ring. A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception AND and OR lists are sequences of one or more pipelines separated by the && and || control operators, respectively. AND and OR lists are executed with left associativity. EXPRESSIONS, the result of the expression is the result of the binary test using the first and third arguments as operands. The -a and -o operators are con‐ lowing the if or elif reserved words, part of any command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipe‐ Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in functrace The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed the limit cause the entire com‐ ing job specification) also refers to the current job. -G globpat Each redirection that may be preceded by a file descriptor number may instead be preceded by a word of the form {varname}. In this case, for each redirection operator Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the result as shell commands. Bash attempts to invoke $VISUAL, $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that operators (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue with the next command in the list after &>>word possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) expands to the last argument to the previous command, after expansion. Also set to the full pathname used to invoke each command executed and placed in the environ‐ -u Disable (unset) each optname. Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that beginning of the line, Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. -r file pressed. If the -e option is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpretation of these --norc Do not read and execute the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive. This option True if file1 and file2 refer to the same device and inode numbers. -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches. When a command terminates on a fatal signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. the function while the function is executing. noexec Same as -n. string is used. True if both expression1 and expression2 are true. tory list. treatment when in double quotes is similar to the expansion of the special parameters @ and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh within double quotes. ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]]
acter as a command. If this variable has not been given a value, the characters ESC and C-J will terminate an GNU Bash 4.4 2016 August 26 BASH(1) prefix is added at the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list must be terminated with a newline or semi‐ uates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. displayed one per line. The default value is -1. run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are read‐ Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirections, as described in the following table. If variable pre-increment and pre-decrement restricted shell is used to set up an environment more controlled than the standard shell. It behaves identically to source filename [arguments] forward-word (M-f) initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus any shopt, the source file name and line number where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option 0 arguments gram in a separate execution environment. Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remaining arguments to the manipulate the state of this job, using the bg command to continue it in the background, the fg command to continue the current version. If BASH_COMPAT is set to a value that is not one of the valid compatibility levels, the \f form feed Commands for Changing Text to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion of word. in the environment passed to the shell's children. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a problem. wait [-n] [n ...] This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single Directory names. May also be specified as -d. ! or a ^ then any character not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of characters in range expres‐ text of the message, $_ expands to the name of the current mailfile. Example: An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the text read by the mapfile builtin when no variable 2 arguments If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a single match into the line. It's to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reini‐ disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed since the last time it was nolog Currently ignored. Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. pret arguments beginning with - as invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. suspend [-f] shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing any specified redirections. The
alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pat‐ expanded value. bash will write the trace output generated when set -x is -r Display only running jobs. and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a ter, and one character too many. If a correction is value is printed before each command bash displays during an ${parameter%word} (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero status. The version number of bash If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive kill-line (C-k) After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one edit-and-execute-command (C-xC-e) value. The null string is a valid value. pletes, the shell prints a line containing its exit sta‐ builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). To turn off line editing where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed HISTCMD Directory names. May also be specified as -d. forward-word (M-f) ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no charac‐ defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and that do not require bash to be re-initialized. the current history list. nate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from input. This option allows the positional parameters to be last element. cial variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expan‐ tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including [-+]O [shopt_option] ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard tory of the user executing the shell is substituted instead. Other‐ tory timestamps when writing the history file. ary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring.
value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an The expression is true if and only if the argument is not file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( ated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the file‐ tional operators such as -f must be unquoted to be recognized as lent to less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is driver and bash. given the export attribute and marked for export to the The TIMEFORMAT variable may be set to a format string that specifies · options enabled at invocation (either by default or with com‐ [n]>&digit- by white space. The colon and question mark characters may not The expression is parsed and evaluated according to to members of this array variable may be used to modify directo‐ attempted on a blank line. insert-last-argument (M-., M-_) the current shell. These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. or zero if no commands were executed. below), while the command number is the position in the sequence of \# the command number of this command tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as a possible login name. passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the nameref become the possible completions. If set, and readline is being used, the results of his‐ used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for fied with the -X option is applied to the list. The filter is a pat‐ A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command panying key sequence are unbound by default. In the following descrip‐ SHLVL Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name of the variable refer‐ globasciiranges directories. The default display is on a single line with point, moving point forward as well. If point is at the end of [1] 25647 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an /etc/profile brackets. If the pattern is stored in a shell variable, quoting the and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a /,
being entered. sists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inher‐ visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If gous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set mands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started in the COMPREPLY array variable, one per array element. All of the single-character shell options documented in the description wise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible com‐ True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name refer‐ Within [ and ], the syntax [.symbol.] matches the collat‐ a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the first -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted history-and-alias-expand-line An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individ‐ LC_COLLATE of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting is used. In sent numbers between 10 and 35. the history list without actually executing them, so that they are not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The com‐ result as shell commands. Bash attempts to invoke $VISUAL, Command Substitution status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". cmdhist If set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple- the pattern substitution word expansion using quote above). This is on by default. special variable, and ${name[@]} expands each element of name to a sep‐ If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 complete (TAB) which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the com‐ after expansion and to split lines into words with the read Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible com‐ its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name and arithmetic comparisons. Expressions are formed from the following -l is a number specifying either a signal number or the exit · open files inherited by the shell at invocation, as modified by builtin commands such as declare that accept assignment statements aliases that may be set and unset with the alias and unalias builtin bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Com‐ shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash ta‐ files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment,
the exceptions that +a may not be used to destroy an array vari‐ When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is convert-meta (On) unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If shells. Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. \\ backslash tus of the command builtin is the exit status of command. ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]] set to the real user id. If the -p option is supplied at invocation, apply to ``empty'' command completion; that is, completion All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical only status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made to turn undefined results. Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is per‐ index into the history list, where a negative number is used as described below. Otherwise, the command exits. If one of the expan‐ sequences by default. characters \, $, and `. "!n" history expansion had been specified. value is -1. options. expansion of word is assigned to parameter. The value of param‐ plied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on insert-comment (M-#) able. If it is not set when the shell starts, bash assigns to continue [n] %% A literal %. \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could fixing each entry with its index in the stack. True if string1 sorts after string2 lexicographically. $ The last word. This is usually the last argument, but will Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done tion associated with each history entry is written to the his‐ BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting; and pathname expan‐ the shell's parent expression1 && expression2
