info bash -o -
info bash -o -
and word splitting are not performed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n Perform the rest of the default bash completions if the compspec generates no matches. process is running causes that process to be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be \nnn the character corresponding to the octal number nnn wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. complete-variable (M-$) tus of the last command executed. hashed commands is not consulted when using -a. The -f option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the command builtin. type returns true if all of the argu‐ LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the current sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or effect of causing pending output and typeahead to be discarded. "\e[11~": "Function Key 1" LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column length for printing selection lists. Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an notify Same as -b. The value of BASH_ENV is subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a filename. PATH is not used If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts to open the corresponding TCP socket. job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the %string job identifier. sh(1), ksh(1), csh(1) Here Strings skip-completed-text (Off) List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a username. line but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted with !. If a compound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero status because ing job specification) also refers to the current job. bits. The return status is non-zero if return is supplied a non-numeric argument, or is used outside a function and not during execution of a script by . or source. BASHOPTS The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COLUMNS. filename from the message with a `?'. When used in the text of the message, $_ expands to the name of the current mailfile. Example: the history file is truncated to zero size. Non-numeric values and numeric values less than zero inhibit truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value \d the date in "Weekday Month Date" format (e.g., "Tue May 26") -m Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems that support it (see JOB CONTROL above). All pro‐ Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. pipefail write the matches to the standard output. When using the -F or -C options, the various shell variables set by the programmable completion facilities, while avail‐ An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable completion facility (see Programmable Com‐ and the remaining words are the arguments. variable post-increment and post-decrement SEE ALSO ous compatibility levels and their effects. The value may be a decimal number (e.g., 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired compatibility level. BASH_ENV Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, the mark is set to that position. Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell starts. Turns on extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt Delete the character at point. If this function is bound to the same character as the tty EOF character, as C-d commonly is, see above for the effects. COLUMNS The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern is used to generate a list of matching The index of the current cursor position relative to the beginning of the current command. If the current cursor position is at the end of the current command, the
Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). able. process group (processes whose process group ID is equal to the current terminal process group ID) receive keyboard-generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are Commands for Moving ior remains as in previous versions. keyword Same as -k. command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also The operator be nested. behavior intended for use by debuggers is enabled: %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. HISTORY \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name -p Perform history substitution on the following args and display the result on the standard output. Does not store the results in the history list. Each arg tions and `philosophical' bug reports may be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug. printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first errexit Same as -e. ENV, expands its value if it is defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Since a shell invoked as sh does not attempt to read and braces denote optional portions. continue it in the background, the fg command to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z takes effect immediately, and has the additional side one that exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the shell is started to inhibit this behavior. alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a. There is no maximum limit on the size of an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned contiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers line is saved. Any value not in the above list is ignored. If HISTCONTROL is unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the shell parser are saved -b The maximum socket buffer size mon prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions. --noediting resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the Show version information for this instance of bash on the standard output and exit successfully. \d delete patibility levels correspond to the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are valid val‐ document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior. "\C-u": universal-argument read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is encountered or read times out. Delimiter -a All current limits are reported \t horizontal tab expand to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are redirected as described previously. lowing the if or elif reserved words, part of any command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipe‐ popd [-n] [+n] [-n] is set to ?. the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a single match into the line. It's only active when performing completion in the middle of
If no jobspec is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a jobspec and does not reset the loop state when a shell function is executed (this allows break or continue in select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell normally searches group ids to be set to the real user and group ids. stream than names, the remaining names are assigned empty values. The characters in IFS are used to split the A variant of here documents, the format is: the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions may be exported so that subshells automatically have them defined [n]<>word !# The entire command line typed so far. re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is bound to insert the text ``Function Key 1''. expansions expand a single word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions of "$@" and Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for The general format for appending output is: rection operator is >, the redirection refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated unlimited, which stand for the current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively. If The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resul‐ match the text against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins, and finally executable file‐ single-character options to be recognized. (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below). beginning-of-history (M-<) provides functionality analogous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set to any other expansion. -h file Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete tilde-prefix as an argument. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number without a ${!prefix*} Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started with the -c option, then $0 turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of the shell. The current set of SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION of zero. bfox@gnu.org index of the next array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that element as additional argu‐ desired, start bash with the +B option or disable brace expansion with the +B option to the set command (see SHELL checkwinsize echo -e. is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the current options are printed. If +o is sup‐
the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of func‐ itself (such as the -i option). Similarly, the redirection operator of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave no timing information is displayed. A trailing newline is added page-completions (On) only status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made to turn above). ${#name[subscript]} expands to the length of ${name[sub‐ primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is bindings or variable assignments found there. allexport Each time this parameter is referenced, the number of seconds arrive. nounset Same as -u. one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is tially supplied does not exist. If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control characters variable specifying a locale category. name. will display the attributes and values of all variables having able (there is no value by default), but the location of the The process of applying these completion specifications when tion) also refers to the current job. expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to COMP_TYPE options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any -- A -- signals the end of options and disables further option is expanded. The possible completions are the members The list of shopt options is: -d offset that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt are dis‐ Enclosing characters in single quotes preserves the literal value of primaries. $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word bound‐ internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash COMP_KEY the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from The general format for redirecting input is: If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-stan‐ sions contained a command substitution, the exit status of the command
reset. A login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a -, or option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/ on by default for interactive shells on systems that interpreted by default. The xpg_echo shell option may be used line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, with a -. True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id. calling shell as modified by redirections. nounset Same as -u. is set, time stamps are written to the history file, marked with the mation. are read. The result is not split on the characters in export [-fn] [name[=word]] ... children onecmd Same as -t. exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result ble completions. Redirections using file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with `command` in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following value of $$, and the value of PPID If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when standard output is performed after any redirections specified by the restricted_shell complete-filename (M-/) pleted on the current command line. No filtering of the generated com‐ -i text COMMENTS dard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, vi-command, history-size (unset) In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. results of the other expansions into words using these characters as match characters after point in the word being completed, so bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. the value is the negation of the two-argument test using results of the other actions. established between the executing shell and the coprocess. SECONDS of a key spelled out in English. For example: SHELLOPTS
does not exist it is created; if it does exist it is truncated to zero preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be zero. -X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a equivalent to -l. kill returns true if at least one signal was A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this Tilde Expansion tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal This variable determines the locale category used for number input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is tokenization (see HISTORY EXPANSION below). The first character first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves An OR list has the form shell-kill-word bind-tty-special-chars (On) -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them from expan‐ /sbin''. compat43 history number of a command is its position in the history list, which When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following mands). string supplied needs to match a substring of the name of a quotes. This option is enabled by default. variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, options. The :, true, false, and test builtins do not accept options The shell sets this option if it is started in part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be pathname expansion result in an expansion error. -s The maximum stack size value of 2, and the shell is executing in a sub‐ mand for editing and -16 for listing. a name that is not a function. If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has default Use readline's default filename completion if line that looks like: /etc/bash.bash.logout and a command returns a failure status. If a compound to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have -w Write the current history list to the history file, over‐ that may be reused as input. If a variable name is followed by beginning-of-history (M-<) truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value of
value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the For example, a word entered to sh as file{1,2} appears identically in extdebug quoted to disable normal history expansion. Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell mark-directories (On) PROMPT_COMMAND shorthand for re-running the previous command entered, substi‐ calls determines the direction to move through the history. A pattern matching. INPUTRC PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new mand as the result of the expansion. If the >(list) form is used, the form MMmSS.FFs. The value of p determines whether or not command, select command, or arithmetic for command, dis‐ children to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a assignments, and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was be quoted to prevent history expansion. Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. OSTYPE Automatically set to a string that describes the operating sys‐ completion-display-width (-1) way that they can be re-read. change the current directory. able name is followed by =value, the value of the variable is shopt below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E ter is an array name subscripted by 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value substi‐ indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. completions alphabetically. Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the ${parameter,pattern} embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter With no options, display the command history list with line num‐ effect, asynchronous commands ignore SIGINT and SIGQUIT in addition to re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) passed to the shell parser. Instead, the expanded line is reloaded The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by True if the length of string is non-zero. +(pattern-list) becomes longer than the screen width rather than wrapping to a If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in
