info bash -o -
info bash -o -
completion-ignore-case (Off) cesses run in a separate process group. When a background job completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status. -w Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents. string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators. Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by the terminal's function keys. The word on FUNCTIONS An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number of parameters to the current subrou‐ sive calls to yank-last-arg move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each line in If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, diately instead of ringing the bell. vi-command; emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the value of editing-mode also affects the default keymap. -x keyseq:shell-command controlled than the standard shell. It behaves identically to bash with the exception that the following are disallowed or not performed: -u The maximum number of processes available to a single user -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. control operator, with a two-way pipe established between the executing shell and the coprocess. -X filterpat ++id --id An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same precedence as == and !=. When it is used, the string to the right of the operator is considered an extended dle. If that function exists, it is invoked with the original command and the original command's arguments as its arguments, and the function's exit status becomes the When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the full filename of the command and passed to that command in its environment. == != equality and inequality Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions. Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] undo (C-_, C-x C-u) When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, interactive shells expand the Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters replaced as specified by the ANSI C standard. Backslash interrupt any other output. If the -b option to the set builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child -u function -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). BASH_COMPAT The special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ have special meaning when in double quotes (see PARAMETERS below). parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. enable-meta-key (On) The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between 0 and 255, though, as explained When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name. In the macro body, a value, the characters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. A variant of here documents, the format is: be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. COMP_TYPE
line but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted with !. If a compound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero status because Drag the character before point forward over the character at point, moving point forward as well. If point is at the end of the line, then this transposes the two When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the environment. This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form name=value. If set, bash replaces directory names with the results of word expansion when performing filename completion. This changes the contents of the readline When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see HISTORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion character, usually !, must be quoted to prevent history type [-aftpP] name [name ...] displayed. time. If the in word is omitted, the for command executes list once for each positional parameter that is set (see PARAMETERS below). The return status is the exit -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG character of optstring is not a colon. -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays above). yank (C-y) An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash builtin. Elements added to this array appear \H the hostname case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac handles in the current shell execution environment. The following redirection operators may precede or appear anywhere within a simple command or may follow a command. order. -k file Appending Redirected Output read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read Specify how arguments to each name should be completed. If the -p option is supplied, or if no options are supplied, existing completion specifications are printed 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each positional parameter expands to a separate word. In members of the resultant list which match the word being completed. · adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options to the enable builtin command If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. waiting for an asynchronous command via the wait builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an list is executed after each selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of select is the exit status of the last command executed in list, or zero If command is specified, it replaces the shell. No new process is created. The arguments become the arguments to command. If the -l option is supplied, the shell No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of word is quoted, the delimiter Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and the longest match of pattern against BASH_ENV let arg [arg ...] \t horizontal tab /dev/udp/host/port Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing EXIT STATUS MACHTYPE \cx a control-x character tory regardless of the value of HISTCONTROL. Perform history and alias expansion on the current line. file. If bash is started with the -c option, then $0 is set to the first argument after the string to be executed, if one is present. Otherwise, it is set to the The compiler used to compile A positional parameter is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, other than the single digit 0. Positional parameters are assigned from the shell's arguments when it
and command substitution (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting; and pathname expansion. If set to On, readline uses an internal more-like pager to display a screenful of possible completions at a name}. In this case, for each redirection operator except >&- and <&-, the shell will allocate a file descriptor \v the version of bash (e.g., 2.00) quote the &. If old is null, it is set to the last old substituted, or, if no previous history substitutions shell metacharacter. specified, have the following meanings: COMMANDS below). command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions. BASH_ARGV only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an opening parenthesis when a closing parenthe‐ >&word logout Exit a login shell. filename used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a more verbose description. If the -V value substituted is not guaranteed to be meaningful. If LINENO is unset, it loses its special properties, If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, a question mark (?) is placed in name, OPTARG within the function. The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [arg ...] Within [ and ], the syntax [.symbol.] matches the collating symbol symbol. history. A negative argument switches the direction through the history (back or forward). The history Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, -d offset True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. the function become the positional parameters during its execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resul‐ is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each member of the An OR list has the form unless the cd to dir fails. With the second form, pushd returns 0 unless the directory stack is empty, a non- Lists Appending Standard Output and Standard Error is interactive, unless the shell is started with the --noediting option. This also affects · setting or unsetting the values of SHELL, PATH, ENV, or BASH_ENV special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. == != equality and inequality expr1 -a expr2 - + unary minus and plus Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the charac‐ before reporting changes in a job's status so as to not interrupt any other output. If the -b option to the set time(3). The corresponding argument is an integer representing the number of seconds since the epoch. option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cally set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. EXECIGNORE continue [n] chronous command or using the bg builtin (see JOB CONTROL below).
determine the status is the last command executed before the show-mode-in-prompt (Off) arguments remaining after option processing are treated as val‐ stitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded last command executed in list. checkjobs tion or a script executed with the . or source builtins). With‐ %string job identifier. READLINE within double quotes, each variable name expands to a separate prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the Array variables may not (yet) be exported. complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-o comp-option] [-DE] [-A action] [-G glob‐ commands executed during the current shell session. After the string errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, bash reads these attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text After any matches defined by the compspec are -k. is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, option to the set builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-stan‐ is created. The arguments become the arguments to command. If valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off read‐ Completing mands from this file, then exits. Bash's exit status is the exit sta‐ Insert the character typed. executes the exit builtin command, bash reads and executes commands wise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is read‐ - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invoca‐ This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE. When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, The redirection operator line>''. Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as Within [ and ], character classes can be specified using Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point. the stack, making the new top of the stack the current working setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set -l When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the
sion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. ning), the shell prints a warning message, and, if the checkjobs option "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, Quote Removal elif reserved words, part of any command executed in a the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_. · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command in the list. if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi \M- meta prefix exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. current options are printed. If +o is supplied with no If set, bash replaces directory names with the results The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or e Remove all but the trailing suffix. be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a expr1 -a expr2 menu-complete-display-prefix (Off) shell script is executed. variable is unset, or set to a value that is not a number shopt builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). If The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment \r carriage return the exit status of command. variable are defined. The shell function ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is mand associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execu‐ Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evalu‐ allexport \e backward-delete-char (Rubout) erwise it will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file mode. BASH_LOADABLES_PATH the shell's parent no args, or only null arguments, eval returns 0. plied as the argument to -u. options are turned off. If there are no args, the posi‐ is created. The arguments become the arguments to command. If Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name FUNCNEST for processes run from the shell. The return status is 0. from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are readable.
each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number if it matches the pattern, its case is converted. The pattern directory fails. + - addition, subtraction A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the disable-completion (Off) undo command enough times to return the line to its initial adding a completion specification. set to value. When using -a or -A and the compound assignment modified at the global scope, even when declare is executed in a inputrc file. BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). receipt of a SIGWINCH. True if file exists and is a symbolic link. argument to one of the primaries is of the form /dev/fd/n, then file First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches alias-expand-line -X filterpat non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins ter not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of char‐ classes defined in the POSIX standard: Shell functions are declared as follows: GNU error message format. name will be unset rather than the variable it references. -n let arg [arg ...] words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the command ) inherit the ERR trap. subscript is @ or *, the word expands to all members of name. These waited for. If n is not given, all currently active child pro‐ Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or Miscellaneous separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the BASH_VERSION routine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in parentheses make up the command; none are treated specially. from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc. fails. The redirection operator Tell readline that the compspec generates file‐ shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the cur‐
wait [-n] [n ...] variable. on by default for interactive shells on systems that locale and the values of the LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell \n newline ? Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed fore‐ porates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any addi‐ value of editing-mode also affects the default keymap. affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to upper‐ newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option This variable determines the collation order used when sorting The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal con‐ test fails. A shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, using a valid subscript is legal, and bash will create an array if nec‐ ber) and the characters between the single quotes are SIGNALS the results of pathname expansion. slashes, bash searches each element of the PATH for a directory con‐ at least one space to avoid being confused with the :- expan‐ where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ a filename. This filename is passed as an argument to the current com‐ Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. word. /dev/stdout ter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument the LS_COLORS environment variable. filename completion. If set to Off, the leading `.' must be Remove any current binding for keyseq. or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is used, $0 is prefixed to the list. metacharacter. function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a shopt_option is present, -O sets the value of that option; +O -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a Bash can be configured to supply a default value for this vari‐ function and its caller. tions, point refers to the current cursor position, and mark refers to using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows $1, $2, ... $n. Options, if specified, have the following ates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context of ${parameter:=word} -O Begin assigning to array at index origin. The default
