info bash -o -
info bash -o -
are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is saved in the variable REPLY. The source filename [arguments] mark-modified-lines (Off) is the result of quote removal on word, and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter True if file1 and file2 refer to the same device and inode numbers. ger value greater than or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether or For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero exit status indicates failure. -i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when the variable is assigned a value. nameref attribute, the list of words can be a list of shell variables, and a name reference will be established for each word in the list, in turn, when the loop is exe‐ to the set builtin command is enabled. If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error occurs call completes. string. When a quoted null argument appears as part of a word whose expansion is non-null, the null argument is removed. That is, the word -d'' becomes -d after word \u the username of the current user If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as described below. Otherwise, the command exits. If one of the expansions contained a command substi‐ If any arguments are supplied when -l is given, the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments are listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the set builtin. --noediting option. This also affects the editing interface used for read -e. operate-and-get-next (C-o) a function, it causes the variable name to have a visible scope restricted to that function and its children. If name is -, the set of shell options is made local The value of parameter is substituted. The braces are required when parameter is a positional parameter with more than one digit, or when parameter is followed by a A variant of here documents, the format is: -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a semicolon to delimit commands. True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as which line from the history list to use during substitution. The second is to select portions of that line for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the filenames for possible completions. If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This allows here-documents within True if file exists and is a socket. (including arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are referenced using arbitrary strings. Unless otherwise noted, indexed array indices must be 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh exponentiation builtin below). -b Report the status of terminated background jobs immediately, rather than before the next primary prompt. This is effective only when job control is enabled. Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without unix-line-discard (C-u) LS_COLORS environment variable. COMP_WORDS Automatically set to a string that uniquely describes the type of machine on which bash is executing. The default is system-dependent. If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as those defined for keys like Home and End. Such sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator of the whitespace characters space, tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the specified interpreter on oper‐ possible-filename-completions (C-x /) Names matching prefix. Expands to the names of variables whose names begin with prefix, separated by the first character of the IFS special variable. When @ is /dev/fd/fd
name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option implies -f. The -g option forces variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare is If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the current options are printed. If +o is supplied with no option-name, a series of set commands to -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain circumstances (see the let and declare builtin commands, the (( compound command, and Arithmetic Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, when history expansion is HISTCMD Each variable assignment is checked for unquoted tilde-prefixes immediately following a : or the first =. In these cases, tilde expansion is also performed. Consequently, Commands for Manipulating the History Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes named by pid or jobspec. sigspec is either a case-insensitive signal name such as SIGKILL (with or with‐ readline(3) double quote may be quoted within double quotes by preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point over that word as well. If point is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on overwrite-mode Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a command name. Command completion attempts to match the text against aliases, reserved words, shell True if file exists and is a character special file. ALL bug reports should include: # Quote the current or previous word If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following default completion function would braceexpand fications. The -D option indicates that the remaining options and actions should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches. The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no characters on the line, and point is at the The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in turn, and list is executed each builtin, retaining the functionality of the builtin within the function. The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if shell-builtin If any arguments are supplied when -l is given, the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments are listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. comparisons. That is, the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower- \H the hostname Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or any of the personal initialization files ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, JOB CONTROL IGNOREEOF ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs bash. A common value is ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin: parameters to be set when invoking an interactive shell. ger value greater than or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether or a decimal number between 2 and 64 representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If base# is omitted, then base 10 is used. When specifying n, the dig‐ The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the vari‐
Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links <= >= < > option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error. · options enabled at invocation (either by default or with command-line arguments) or by set replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. variable. If an attempt is made to set history-size to a non-numeric value, the maximum number of history ments are assigned to the positional parameters. The assignment to $0 sets the name of the shell, which is return status is that of the last command executed in the function body. If return is executed by a trap han‐ example, to use the test binary found via the PATH instead of the shell builtin version, run ``enable -n Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt any jobs are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a second exit is attempted without an If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the shell environment describes what syntax features are available. This feature is enabled by default for interactive shells, and can be \t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format -f file !n Refer to command line n. Perform the rest of the default bash completions if the compspec generates no matches. List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name. Word Splitting on the variable specified by the nameref variable's value. A nameref is commonly used within shell functions to 4 arguments If parameter is @, the result is length positional parameters beginning at offset. A negative offset is taken bash attempts to open the corresponding UDP socket. BASH_SOURCE arguments, resulting from the expansion of parameters that have no values, are removed. If a parameter with no value isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command DESCRIPTION more arguments. to add and remove directories. Assignment to this variable will not change the current directory. If and in command mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard set of meta- and control pre‐ taining delimiter. This allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural fashion. [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed since the last time it was ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; ning of an empty line), any compspec defined with the -E option to complete is used. If a compspec has been defined currently does not cause command names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is unset, it loses its Directory names. May also be specified as -d. the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null The shell executes the specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this executable format them‐
ing trailing spaces). Intended to be used with Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirec‐ -n string An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the text If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to late between A and B, and upper-case and lower-case lowing meanings: test and [ builtin commands to test file attributes and perform string Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. of pat is replaced by rep. Command is intepreted the same as It is applied to the list of possible completions gener‐ kill-whole-line exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~ binary If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment x* Abbreviates x-$. the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e. attempted and any matches are added to the abbreviated with a tilde sion of word to be opened for reading on file descriptor n, or the one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. It chown root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}} ronment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, The following variables are set by the shell: -p prompt AUTHORS provides access to the command history, the list of commands previously SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, com‐ expression. The element with index n is the portion of the READLINE attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option before returning when accept-line is executed. By default, his‐ environment. This option is enabled when posix mode is Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value of BASH_LOADABLES_PATH ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the -W wordlist tion environment. Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remain‐
This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ [n]<<[-]word with each history entry displayed by the history builtin. If mand were executed: A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a saved in the history list. A value of ignoredups causes lines and its expanded arguments or associated word list. On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the vari‐ words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E All of the single-character shell options documented in the description directories and returns 0, unless the directory stack is empty. unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell func‐ group ids to be set to the real user and group ids. The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utili‐ (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero status. line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as itself. @ Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When Generate possible completion matches for word according to the using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. string, the compatibility level is set to the default for the n is specified). command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by manipulated. [n]>&digit- This variable, when set to On, causes readline to match files through the history as necessary. This is an incremental If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the eter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern HISTORY. This option is on by default in inter‐ \E an escape character appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If 3. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a above. True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of text, including " and '. -B The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion line>''. sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed
disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] space character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, ately following a : or the first =. In these cases, tilde expansion is it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently history list. initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, before returning a value. If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, the value is the negation of the two-argument test using on by default for interactive shells on systems that user mail files that it uses is system dependent (e.g., bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell exits, rather than overwriting the file. ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, bash reads these not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. previous-history (C-p) -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parame‐ invalid; otherwise trap returns true. (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for which the mark-modified-lines (Off) assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as appropriate. run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control Run command with args suppressing the normal shell function A shell function is an object that is called like a simple command and Bash performs the expansion by executing command in a subshell environ‐ shell-backward-word context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands no args, or only null arguments, eval returns 0. ignored by interactive shells. status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". mands from the file /etc/profile, if that file exists. After reading are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion mands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started results of the other actions. the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the If set to On, a character denoting a file's type as reported by -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing The personal initialization file, executed for login shells string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and [n]>&word i.e., ``.''. If dir begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not
ground in the current shell environment. interprets the following extensions: that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname. whose name is the same as a shell builtin, retaining the func‐ Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a defining the list of filenames to be ignored by command search option. expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the charac‐ tion and its children. If name is -, the set of shell options primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion receives signal(s) sigspec. If arg is absent (and there is a appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an +n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the shift_verbose mand name. There are two forms: spec generates no matches. shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any ries already in the stack, but the pushd and popd builtins must beginning at offset. A negative offset is taken relative to one | bitwise OR \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME True if the length of string is non-zero. Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation or negative integers. executed, the exit status is 0. An attempt is first made to open the store the results in the history list. Each arg must be command Command names. May also be specified as -c. executes command passing it args, returning its exit status. True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when The command number and the history number are usually different: the must be separated from list by whitespace or another shell the SHELLOPTS, BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they tinue, let, and shift builtins accept and process arguments beginning value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. mand associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execu‐ as if in the traditional C locale when performing com‐ Display version information about the current instance of bash.
