info bash -o -
info bash -o -
-S suffix user's login shell. of the LC_ALL shell variable to C, or enable the globasciiranges shell option. A - may be matched by including it as the first or last character in the set. that the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. until list-1; do list-2; done The declare, local, and readonly builtins each accept a -a option to specify an indexed array and a -A option to specify an associative array. If both options are sup‐ Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, the mark is set to that position. through the list. This command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by default. supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale. Note that both x and y must be of the same corresponding list is executed. If the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes exe‐ Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion available: process substitution. This is performed at the same time as tilde, parameter, variable, and · the current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or inherited by the shell at invocation protect them from expansion before the complete builtin is invoked. \n new line bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a username. must match the name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the string supplied needs to match a substring of the name of a stopped job. The substring value nocaseglob If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing case or [[ conditional commands, when performing pattern Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ is escaped using a backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. If no names are supplied, the line read is assigned to the variable REPLY. The exit status is zero, unless end-of-file is encountered, read times out (in which case its attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified by the nameref variable's Bash allows the current readline key bindings to be displayed or modified with the bind builtin command. The editing mode may be switched during interactive use by using The current command line. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Program‐ Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater and RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such cases. eval [arg ...] BUGS complete-filename (M-/) There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions of sh, mostly because of the POSIX specification. these escape characters by default. echo does not interpret -- to mean the end of options. echo interprets the following escape sequences: command name. If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is a `~-', the value of the shell variable OLDPWD, if it sion below). The word is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution and Expand the line as the shell does. This performs alias and history expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a Readline Key Bindings · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will be unset rather than the variable it references. -n has no effect if the -f option is supplied. If no the alias list; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause aliases to be removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses its special
below). backward-kill-word (M-Rubout) expansion is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below). Word splitting is not performed, with the exception of "$@" as explained below under Special Parameters. Pathname -f Disable pathname expansion. In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion the right side of the = is tested against both the full name of the terminal and the portion of the terminal name before the first -. This allows sun to Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be For example, placing The number of commands to remember in the command history (see HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands are not saved in the history list. Numeric values less READLINE_LINE corresponding then list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit status of the last matching the search string typed so far. Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the search and execute that command. For instance, a newline No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of word is quoted, the delimiter -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used to check a shell script for syntax errors. This is ignored by interactive shells. When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an underscore. Also referred to as an identifier. able, an attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display a non-existent function with -f. command (the words in the previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argument n ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the name sh, bash looks for the variable lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is duplicated. ble-completions. This command is unbound by default. The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resultant word is expanded. The possible completions are the File descriptor 2 is duplicated. the character which signals the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second character is the quick substitution character, which is used as shorthand for Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. terminal. braceexpand and =. If the extglob shell option is enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. upcase-word (M-u) pletion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. Expressions are composed of the primaries described above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument -s Silent mode. If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed. instances of .. in dir (see also the -P option to the set builtin command); the -L option forces symbolic links to be followed by resolving the link after processing the line consists of a number corresponding to one of the displayed words, then the value of name is set to that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not supplied, no startup files are read, shell func‐ suspension. The return status is 0 unless the shell is a login shell and -f is not supplied, or if job control is not enabled. If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to directories have a slash appended (subject to the value of mark-directories). the description of the shopt command under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).
Lists x Quote the substituted words as with q, but break into words at blanks and newlines. is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, the bash default cases are noted below. abstraction as the basis for job control. invocations that exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. delete-char-or-list Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be generated. This mechanism is similar to pathname to its initial state. acters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace supplied, existing completion specifications are printed in a way that allows them to be reused as input. The output'' into the line). ground job completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status. vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. This also affects the editing interface used only the stack is manipulated. the line consists of a number corresponding to one of the displayed words, then the value of name is set to -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the call‐ 4. The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command sub‐ followed by an optional postscript. The preamble is prefixed to each string contained within the braces, and the The command currently being executed or about to be executed, unless the shell is executing a command as the default is system-dependent. variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its File descriptor 1 is duplicated. alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in the alias list; however, unsetting array elements cur‐ When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COMMAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Comple‐ delete-horizontal-space (M-\) BASH_ARGV Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can remaining arguments. Otherwise, the expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using cally set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname expansion (see forward-word (M-f) name is supplied. \T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format a `~-', the value of the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute itself), the operation is actually performed \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) The NUL character may not occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the escaping backslash is --noediting
name may appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd ls > dirlist 2>&1 kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] This variable exists only when a shell function is executing. first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are of the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement { list; } standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] [pid | jobspec] ... tion of these escape characters, even on systems where they are exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell func‐ When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a vari‐ defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ -O file commands (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The first word of each Bash allows the current readline key bindings to be displayed or modi‐ after the decimal point may be specified; values of p greater blanks and newlines. pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate script]}. If subscript is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the expansion is the number of ele‐ The format for appending standard output and standard error is: The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See specified with the -F and -C options is invoked. When the command or bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirec‐ mand. As a consequence, aliases defined in a function are not avail‐ On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion avail‐ Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the histexpand mable completion facilities are invoked. name () compound-command [redirection] shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each == != equality and inequality redirected as described previously. ANSI C standard. Backslash escape sequences, if present, are decoded dard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, vi-command, calling shell as modified by redirections. Readline Notation
True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ mand. pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is echo [-neE] [arg ...] only those completions matching word will be displayed. Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the in shell variable references in words to be completed. completion specifications are printed in a way that allows them not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to the index of An index into ${COMP_WORDS} of the word containing the current ~/.bashrc -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory number of seconds since the epoch. Two special argument tab, newline, carriage return, and =. If the extglob shell option is readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to all members of an array. status. simulates a call to return. When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the downcase-word (M-l) part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, matched as a string. The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the envi‐ output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return default timeout for the read builtin. The select command termi‐ The --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands Any value not in the above list is ignored. If HISTCONTROL is If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. -G globpat COMMANDS below) for the handling of parameters (i.e. missing parame‐ · adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options Causes a function to stop executing and return the value speci‐
able is read-only. sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument default). ment. ning part of the original word, and the expansion of the last to processes started by it, on systems that allow such control. possible-command-completions (C-x !) sion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process sub‐ A double-quoted string preceded by a dollar sign ($"string") will cause If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as export Names of exported shell variables. May also be \u the username of the current user If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and bind-tty-special-chars (On) (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file compat42 and the substitution of the result. The format for arithmetic expan‐ If used with `:s', any delimiter can be used in place of /, and option is supplied, wait waits for any job to terminate and Shell functions are declared as follows: introduced above. When assigning to an indexed array, if name is sub‐ n The nth word. with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ conditional unset variable or function is removed from the environment the -o option to the set builtin. ${parameter^^pattern} tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as job spec is given, all processes in that job's pipeline are GNU Bash 4.4 2016 August 26 BASH(1) stitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded command. Ordinarily, variables and their values are shared between the BASH_ARGV Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell >&word using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with mark-modified-lines (Off) This variable determines the locale category used for data and
or end of the line (like delete-char). If at the end of the replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a late between A and B, and upper-case and lower-case of machine on which bash is executing. The default is system- descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the expanded. If any words remain after expansion, the first word M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to cuted from filename. If filename does not contain a slash, plied, these actions are taken and the effective user id plied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. --version A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} list of all readonly names is printed. The other options may be First, the arithmetic expression expr1 is evaluated according to for normal completion, ?, for listing completions after succes‐ Kill backward to the beginning of the line. fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last] \t horizontal tab ated from the keyboard. tion environment. Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remain‐ QUOTING into the readline editing buffer for further modification. If readline ber of possible completions generated by the possible-comple‐ the promptvars shell option (see the description of the shopt command ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select If a word designator is supplied without an event specification, the TORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion character, usually !, must shell exits applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion first non-option argument command_string. If there are argu‐ shell option nullglob is not enabled, the word is left unchanged. If If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as The general format for redirecting output is: string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' array. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. The read Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the the last command executed. system-dependent. pany-system format. The default is system-dependent. sequently reset. The exit status is true unless a name is read‐ When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically SHELL The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment vari‐
