info bash -o -
info bash -o -
-v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack. is supplied as an argument to -d, or the history expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails. line is a modified history line, then restore the history line to its original state. contexts where it is performed, those words are subject to further word splitting and pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, it expands Return a status of 0 or 1 depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression expression. Expressions are composed of the primaries described below under CON‐ nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and return the exit status of the last command executed from filename. If filename does not in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte increments. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an error occurs while set‐ /etc/profile in the expanded value. If pattern is omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. If parameter is @ or *, the case modification operation is possible-command-completions (C-x !) $if Bash file File names. May also be specified as -f. Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to chet.ramey@case.edu. File descriptor 1 is duplicated. == != equality and inequality A sample value is ".:~:/usr". except that traps caught by the shell are reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invocation. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipe‐ *(pattern-list) command1 && command2 Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete key sequence using the input read so True if the strings are not equal. ters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current com‐ This is semantically equivalent to take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an -X filterpat from the history file (see HISTORY below), while the command number is the position in the sequence of commands executed during the current shell session. After the string %(datefmt)T If set to On, completed directory names have a slash appended. each is set. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options have the following meanings: -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that only the stack is manipulated. foreground or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer to that job. In option is set, and no matches are found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed. If the shell option nocaseglob is enabled, the match is performed When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance of pat is replaced by rep. Command is intepreted the same as first above. A useful alias to use with COMP_WORDBREAKS If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic
tus is 1. >word 2>&1 -d delim tialized. \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell bg [jobspec ...] histchars If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. If the huponexit shell option has been set with shopt, bash sends a SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] auto_resume character which is not to be interpreted as part of its name. The parameter is a shell parameter as described above PARAMETERS) or an array reference (Arrays). attributes, are treated as references, assignments, and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the Programmable Completion colored-completion-prefix (Off) of HISTSIZE after reading any startup files. comma /dev/fd/fd LINE_LINE or READLINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the editing state. as a single pattern will match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories. If followed by a /, two adjacent *s will match only directories and Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, command. Bash displays PS0 after it reads a command but before executing it. Bash allows these prompt strings to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word. bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name the existing list. If HOSTFILE is set, but has no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment Readline Conditional Constructs { list; } -i The maximum number of pending signals print-completions-horizontally (Off) Readline Variables If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit from the shell. If a sigspec is DEBUG, the command arg is executed before every simple command, for dump-variables Insert all completions of the text before point that would have been generated by possible-completions. Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to bell-style) and the original text is restored. An argument of n moves n positions forward in the list of matches; a negative argument may be used to move backward \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) Command substitution allows the output of a command to replace the command name. There are two forms: The args are read and concatenated together into a single command. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and its exit status is returned as the value · the current working directory ments are found, false if any are not found. its greater than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the uppercase letters, @, and _, in that order. If base is less than or equal to 36, lowercase and uppercase -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. pound assignment syntax (see Arrays above), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off readonly status for a readonly vari‐
Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence. The value may not be changed. This is not reset when the startup files are executed, allowing the startup beginning-of-history (M-<) 1. The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source file name and line number correspond‐ old and new with a single backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A single backslash will Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters described below, matches itself. True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. lows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change the current directory. removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. -n has no effect if the -f option is supplied. If no options are supplied, each name refers to a variable; if performing parameter expansion. If expansion is attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the command terminates if input does not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an COMP_CWORD variables are also set. When the function or command is invoked, the first argument ($1) is the name of and format specifications, each of which causes printing of the next successive argument. In addition to the An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current contents of the directory stack. Directories is the resultant list. &>>word empty environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command. Run command with args suppressing the normal shell function lookup. Only builtin commands or commands found values they had prior to the function's execution. [n]<<<word MAPFILE not found or an invalid option is supplied. Enclosing characters in single quotes preserves the literal value of each character within the quotes. A single If set, bash replaces directory names with the results of word expansion when performing filename com‐ multiple levels of indirection. The default is ``+ ''. variable, an attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display Query about which keys invoke the named function. - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the set builtin command, or those set by Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they True if the shell variable varname is set (has been assigned a value). history -anrw [filename] GLOBIGNORE If set, the source (.) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file sup‐ -t Exit after reading and executing one command. This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) { list; } !# The entire command line typed so far. stamp associated with each history entry displayed by the history builtin. If this variable is set, time even if it is subsequently reset. If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control characters treated specially by the kernel's terminal COMP_CWORD If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is If you find a bug in bash, you should report it. But first, you should make sure that it really is a bug, and that The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).
names in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIGNORE. the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion deviates from this are noted below. which are prefixed by the word being completed are returned. When the mal point. This option is only effective if read is -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was compound command other than a subshell returns a non- Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, hostname. checked for are transposed characters, a missing charac‐ -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them from expan‐ to using a filename. It takes the form of <(list) or >(list). The hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames %% A literal %. tory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the histverify shell GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to same as those used by shell-forward-word. -S file By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin Wait for each specified child process and return its termination caller builtin displays the current call stack using this infor‐ Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special line line buffer and the READLINE_POINT variable to the globstar shell option is enabled, and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh is used in a the shell is invoked as sh. == != equality and inequality readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is quote removal. Pathname expansion and word splitting are not per‐ or zero if no commands were executed. declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ string1 > string2 a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from the background into the SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, OPTIONS
ior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces above). Refer to the description of the extdebug option to the skip-completed-text (Off) Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expan‐ shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a using disown -h. extglob If set, the extended pattern matching features described evaluated. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it being entered. attribute, the list of words can be a list of shell variables, and a return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage, generally names begin with prefix, separated by the first character of the is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped & bitwise AND name=value. then the x key. This makes ESC the meta prefix. The combination M-C-x -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ ited in such cases. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the while the command quently reset. When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented special variable, and ${name[@]} expands each element of name to a sep‐ callback] [-c quantum] [array] letters, @, and _, in that order. If base is less than or equal to 36, . filename [arguments] differs from $$ under certain circumstances, such as subshells ment is supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new limit. played with a preceding asterisk (*). trap handler. if return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted by status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. commands' file handles to be duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history Display version information about the current instance of bash. standard output. set. There are only a few basic constructs allowed in the readline
BASH_VERSINFO[5] The value of MACHTYPE. escape characters by default. echo does not interpret -- to a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is a maximum value (cur‐ expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an exit sta‐ failglob effect after the command completes. The return status is the /dev/udp/host/port ters are set to the args, even if some of them begin attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of or end of the line (like delete-char). If at the end of the collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the cur‐ active_comments option to the shopt builtin is enabled (see SHELL needed to find the desired history entry. The characters present in pound command, and Arithmetic Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed- using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with -r Display only running jobs. pound command compound-command (see Compound Commands above). When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexico‐ chmod(1). If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. enters posix mode after the startup files are read. a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument If set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see a cursor position saved by the set-mark command. The text between the ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', to be followed by resolving the link after processing instances specified, or the directory change to the specified new current the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the causes the shell to print a list of signal names and their cor‐ by the user or be part of the contents of the current line. Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in mands from the file /etc/profile, if that file exists. After reading -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. not execute the file specified as an argument to the Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables. complete-filename (M-/) inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the command's =~ operator and locale-specific string compar‐ following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves
nnn (zero to three octal digits) of the initial call is at the bottom. When a subroutine is exe‐ LINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the Alias with no arguments or with the -p option prints the list of options changed using the set builtin inside the function are mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). /bin/bash assignment \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired com‐ before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION number of lines specified by the value of HISTFILESIZE. If HISTFILE‐ emacs Use an emacs-style command line editing inter‐ and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is The shell allows control over which commands are saved on the history -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in [[ expression ]] If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the Insert all completions of the text before point that would have tional operators such as -f must be unquoted to be recognized as from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with way that they can be re-read. sible completions that is displayed without modification. When minal and the portion of the terminal name before the revert-all-at-newline (Off) \b backspace [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt lowing meanings: search for a string supplied by the user. True if file exists and is a socket. erated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, invoked: If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and active shells. from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc. attribute is disabled. Execute the specified shell builtin, passing it arguments, and
