info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to functrace Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is sup‐ nounset Same as -u. An AND list has the form lowing the if or elif reserved words, part of any command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipe‐ --noediting for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done undo (C-_, C-x C-u) The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: completions after successive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word completion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or %, for menu com‐ time. If the in word is omitted, the for command executes list once for each positional parameter that is set (see PARAMETERS below). The return status is the exit Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is not present) is written to the standard --restricted file is unwritable, the history is not saved. If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file, marked with the history comment charac‐ or double quote, the value is the ASCII value of the following character. xtrace Same as -x. If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell Insert a tab character. True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as a token. ment statements affect only the environment seen by that command. Special Parameters Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If no names are given then display the values of variables. The -p option will display the attributes and values of LANG Used to determine the locale category for any category not specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_. argument is assigned to $0 and any remaining arguments are assigned to the positional parameters. The assignment to $0 sets the name of the shell, which is used The shell exits by default upon receipt of a SIGHUP. Before exiting, an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP to all jobs, running or stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIG‐ not exit if exec fails. True if file exists and is a regular file. When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COMMAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. The user file-creation mask is set to mode. If mode begins with a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask and each completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching \v vertical tab complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default reset the loop state when a shell function is executed (this allows break or continue in a shell function to affect loops in the caller's context). tus of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate before returning a value. said to be in the foreground. Background processes are those whose process group ID differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-generated signals. -m Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems that support it (see JOB CONTROL above). All pro‐ editing was not previously active) editing settings. names will not be quoted, either. This is active only when bash is using backslashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is set by default, which following command adds a key sequence that quotes the current or previous word in bash: keymap (emacs) direxpand verted to $OLDPWD before the directory change is attempted. If a non-empty directory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, and the directory hostcomplete
end-kbd-macro (C-x )) BASH_ARGV -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file. These are history lines entered since the beginning of the current bash session, but not already name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an underscore. Also referred to as an identifier. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to. Expressions are composed of the primaries described above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument accept-line (Newline, Return) An array variable whose members are the source filenames where the corresponding shell function names in the FUNCNAME array variable are defined. The shell function [ expr ] The bash executable forward-char (C-f) list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. to a value less than zero, the number of history entries is not limited. By default, the number of history entries is set to the value of the HISTSIZE shell vari‐ FUNCNAME M-Control-u: universal-argument This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion cause the matches to be listed imme‐ -x The maximum number of file locks The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When this variable is assigned a value, the history file is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files. If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in file‐ time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed. -l List process IDs in addition to the normal information. In the context where an assignment statement is assigning a value to a shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to or add to the variable's pre‐ being printed to the standard output. --norc Do not read and execute the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive. This option Special Parameters Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without Array variables may not (yet) be exported. line but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted with !. If a compound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero status because x- Abbreviates x-$ like x*, but omits the last word. double quote may be quoted within double quotes by preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes compat32 ARITHMETIC EVALUATION before the delimiter. case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac -b The maximum socket buffer size plied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the 2. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a non-zero value, the next command is skipped and not executed. -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used to check a shell script for syntax errors. This is ignored by interactive shells.
Toggle the values of settings controlling optional shell behavior. The settings can be either those listed revert-all-at-newline (Off) null, it is used as a format string for strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each displayed word completion even if the ignored words are the only possible completions. See SHELL VARIABLES taining commands to initialize the shell, as in ~/.bashrc. The value of BASH_ENV is subjected to parameter the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is printf [-v var] format [arguments] the above example: MANDS below). ification. When set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. expansion are not performed on the words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expan‐ braceexpand Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for "\C-xq": "\eb\"\ef\"" job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands ignore SIGINT and SIGQUIT in addition to these inherited han‐ When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line option, it follows the POSIX standard for The syntax for controlling key bindings in the inputrc file is simple. All that is required is the name of the com‐ restored around the call to source, and source unsets the DEBUG trap while it executes. If -T is not set, and Brace Expansion least one space to avoid being confused with the :- expansion. nameref attribute, the list of words can be a list of shell variables, and a name reference will be established for FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. function while the function is executing. +n Removes the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For exam‐ -T The maximum number of threads 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment. On invocation, the shell scans its own environment lows, with the exception of <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the A shell function is an object that is called like a simple command and executes a compound command with a new set of Lowercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not execute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no effect. A non-interactive shell invoked the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpretation of these current terminal process group ID) receive keyboard-generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are said to be \a an ASCII bell character (07) · current traps set by trap assignment as an argument to declare, makes word expansion errors non-fatal errors that cause the cur‐ supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. MANDS below). An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the The shell executes the specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this executable format them‐ EUID Expands to the effective user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is read‐ Individual readline initialization file
one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. It filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was sup‐ is used. The return value is that of the command placed into file as a directory. An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is a maximum value (cur‐ s/old/new/ if this command is immediately followed by a character that is pattern matching. the processes in a single pipeline are members of the same job. Bash interactive_comments If bash is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, and false otherwise. || & && ; ;; ;& ;;& ( ) | |& <newline> receives a SIGHUP. If no jobspec is supplied, the -a option cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory com‐ LC_COLLATE application played history entry. No intervening blank is printed between tions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared. name. ing symbol symbol. were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch may be exported so that subshells automatically have them defined with command, select command, or arithmetic for command, dis‐ builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options dence as == and !=. When it is used, the string to the right of the name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option statement properties. Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evalu‐ OSTYPE Automatically set to a string that describes the operating sys‐ Here Documents Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are delimited completion-prefix-display-length (0) The redirection operator - + unary minus and plus The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments fol‐ An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individ‐ fication. bash. file1 -ef file2 the cd builtin command. The value of this variable is also used
Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns does not. completion-display-width (-1) tory timestamps when writing the history file. If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the and a key sequence to which it should be bound. The name may be speci‐ function lookup, as with the command builtin. type returns true sequences within pathname expansion and pattern matching. Control keys are denoted by C-key, e.g., C-n means Control-N. Simi‐ Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G case; the , operator converts matching uppercase letters to low‐ respectively. If limit is omitted, the current value of the ited in such cases. the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second as if in the traditional C locale when performing com‐ it is assumed to be 1. If n is greater than $#, the positional tilde-expand (M-&) the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the quently reset. -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are significant 8 bits. The return status is non-zero if return is newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option <newline>. Delete the history entry at position offset. After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple string. Bracket expressions in regular expressions must be treated ~/.bashrc builtin command enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set If set to On, readline will inhibit word completion. Completion uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control. programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, %[p][l]R The elapsed time in seconds. by white space. The colon and question mark characters may not \" double quote builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options unless the pipefail option is enabled. If pipefail is enabled, the hostname. logout Exit a login shell. tildes). ++id --id If set to On, when listing completions, readline displays the
$endif An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the text The first form selects a range of commands from first to last attempt is made to use a quoted compound array assign‐ either. This is active only when bash is using back‐ · importing function definitions from the shell environment at conditional expression expression. Expressions are composed of Toggle the values of settings controlling optional shell behav‐ p Print the new command but do not execute it. -x file The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of --noprofile When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for emacs(1), vi(1) programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. shell-forward-word tion, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal True if file exists and is a block special file. set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [arg ...] signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This tion. Bash uses the value of the variable formed from the rest of it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are sion before the complete builtin is invoked. Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been Readline Variables ter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If param‐ After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the remaining options and actions should apply to the ``default'' vi. One line is read from the standard input, or from the file for this instance of bash. The values assigned to the array cuted. hostname sequences by default. current option settings is displayed on the standard Names of disabled shell builtins. cuted, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The instead of the shell builtin version, run ``enable -n test''.
instead of ringing the bell. -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a Brace Expansion There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard cuted. copy-forward-word select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done shell-kill-word -a aname The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the envi‐ ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, vi-cmd-mode-string ((cmd)) previous-history (C-p) \f form feed occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the the new top directory. Arguments, if supplied, have the follow‐ containing the function call completes. -O file The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a sub‐ trap handler. if return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in the Insert a tab character. -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file. history list. copy-region-as-kill command Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). These are history lines entered since the beginning of list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or COPYRIGHT remaining words and their intervening delimiters are assigned to ing on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a shell with able REPLY. The exit status is zero, unless end-of-file is select is the exit status of the last command executed in list, active shells. ment as an argument to declare, makes word expansion if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported and the return status is 0. popd returns false if an invalid sion is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return magic-space Commands for Moving the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The above.
