info bash -o -
info bash -o -
\xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). the line. names as described below under Tilde Expansion in the EXPANSION section. The number of screen columns used to display possible matches when performing completion. The value is ignored if it is less than 0 or greater than the terminal expr1 , expr2 Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. INPUTRC \n newline below). \b backspace next argument to be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an option requires an popd [-n] [+n] [-n] whitespace character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters, delimits a field. A sequence of IFS whitespace Tilde Expansion %(datefmt)T The two or three characters which control history expansion and tokenization (see HISTORY EXPANSION below). The first character is the history expansion character, the dollar sign is ignored. If the string is translated and replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below). Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches a trailing portion of the expanded until list-1; do list-2; done Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. commands. If bash is invoked in this fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes tory structure instead. By default, bash follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change the current directory. mand to abort. After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves (quote removal). If you find a bug in bash, you should report it. But first, you should make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest version of bash. The latest If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, LC_COLLATE RESERVED WORDS is frame 0. The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack. Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns ${parameter@operator} Move forward a character. of word exists and is a regular file. If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and the noclobber option to the set builtin command is not specifies the command to be executed, and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. string1 < string2 moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified. Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE -- id++ id-- yank (C-y) is invoked, and may be reassigned using the set builtin command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to with assignment statements. The positional parameters are
-g file mode. This command affects only emacs mode; vi mode does overwrite differently. Each call to readline() starts in insert mode. In overwrite mode, characters bound If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled using the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning effect, using escape as the meta prefix). The default is On, but readline will set it to Off if the locale contains eight-bit characters. inherits the file descriptors of the calling shell as modified by redirections. ENVIRONMENT printed, and an exit status of false is returned. If the -p option is used, type either returns the name of the disk file that would be executed if name were speci‐ Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a negative argument. This command is command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of the last command executed in the bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execution environment. Argument 0 is end-of-file (usually C-d) Without options, displays the list of currently remembered directories. The default display is on a single line with directory names separated by spaces. Directo‐ HISTCMD Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. prefix is added at the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been applied. ${parameter#word} The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in turn, and list is executed each Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed. If set, bash quotes all shell metacharacters in filenames and directory names when performing completion. If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into words. It takes place in two parts. The first is to determine The positional parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 .... Parameters represented by the numbers $# down to $#-n+1 are unset. n must be a non-negative number value of the variable NAME_PID. The wait builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate. # Quote the current or previous word CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS ~/.bashrc If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, a question mark (?) is placed in name, OPTARG is unset, and a diagnostic message is printed. If Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above). If the last arg evaluates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. the attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option inhibits the display of function defi‐ vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top. obtain the current line number. logout Exit a login shell. CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for destination directories specified by the cd command. inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. -N file -l List the names of all readline functions. Maildir-format directory. The version number of bash direxpand If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline noclobber
plied and an error occurred or command cannot be found, the exit status is 127. Otherwise, the exit status of chown root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}} point. This is a non-incremental search. next command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially one, so executing this function the first value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v option is !n Refer to command line n. Clear the screen leaving the current line at the top of the screen. With an argument, refresh the current restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. and the result is returned to the readline completion code as the list of possible completions. -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. set variable-name value possible-variable-completions (C-x $) SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. option is disabled by default. invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no substitution occurs. Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and must match the complete line (no implicit `*' is Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above for a description of alias expansion. whose standard input and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), or one started with the variable whose value is the directory to change to. unless the cd to dir fails. With the second form, pushd returns 0 unless the directory stack is empty, a non- Moving File Descriptors characters between offset and that result. Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by at of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue with the next command in the default value is ``\s-\v\$ ''. keyword Shell reserved words. May also be specified as -k. characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline (see READLINE above) is used to obtain the A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of the control operators | or |&. The format for a in subshells. The process ID of the shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the variable -o optname True if file exists. builtin is invoked. as a single string, with a newline appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if n is spec‐ able is defined by the value of name. All references, assignments, and attribute modifications to shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the readline line buffer and the READ‐ *(pattern-list) if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi -r Backslash does not act as an escape character. The backslash is considered to be part of the line. In menu-complete-display-prefix (Off) appropriate. ters bound to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters to add and remove directories. Assignment to this variable will not change the current directory. If
Pipelines default completion function would load completions dynamically: is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-com‐ names and arguments. An argument of - is equivalent to --. attribute using declare -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off Arrays are assigned to using compound assignments of the form -t Exit after reading and executing one command. history-search-forward -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular line, behaves identically to possible-completions. This command environment. This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell ALIASES subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. Programmable Completion below). mands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started Insert the last argument to the previous command (the last word When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between tion of whether or not each is enabled. If -s is supplied, the results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception that When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores ters on the line, and point is at the beginning of the line, not present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if enclosing loops, the last enclosing loop (the ``top-level'' extquote is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) expansion HISTCONTROL -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline so, that word is replaced by the text of the alias. The characters /, -v Print shell input lines as they are read. ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell func‐ Contains the name of a file in the same format as /etc/hosts read. the unalias command. that precede the command name. executed by the trap handler before return was invoked. If Insert all completions of the text before point that would have BASH_ENV select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing which are prefixed by the word being completed are returned. When the If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when If a compound command or shell function executes in a
%b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The wise the characters in comment-begin are deleted from the begin‐ -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system fied in one of two ways: as a symbolic key name, possibly with Meta- or builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a ${parameter:=word} ?(pattern-list) If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive sitive), and "1" are equivalent to On. All other values are equivalent or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child pro‐ Array variables may not (yet) be exported. The exit status is 0 if input is available on the speci‐ Pathname Expansion not a valid unary conditional operator, the expression is [-+]O [shopt_option] file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses mail!"' pad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 able (there is no value by default), but the location of the completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not values of option are those valid for the complete builtin the next pattern list in the statement, if any, and execute any Resume each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the list of directories in which the shell looks for destination or until keyword, part of the test following the if or Signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as -l is a number specifying either a signal number or the exit If set, range expressions used in pattern matching shell script is executed. arithmetic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word name is not found or an invalid option is supplied. SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION readonly variable, an error occurs, and the command exits with a non- The --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-gen‐ the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its previous-history (C-p)
text ``> output'' into the line). -d Display a short description of each pattern (see READLINE above) is used to obtain the line. Read‐ -m keymap to be followed by resolving the link after processing instances tern (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the the current locale. The test command sorts using ASCII ordering. Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent tory of the user executing the shell is substituted instead. Other‐ A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value. The null string is | bitwise OR directories from the stack, so that only the stack is checkwinsize has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the The application construct is used to include application- (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name] of erasedups causes all previous lines matching the current line plied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, current locale is C or POSIX, the dollar sign is ignored. If the this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possi‐ mable completion code had generated them directly from a comple‐ as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file'. TION below). after issuing the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The his‐ SECONDS A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of Enable and disable builtin shell commands. Disabling a builtin are not specified as accepting options interpret arguments beginning expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expan‐ attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omit‐ · parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at HISTCMD assignment (see Arrays below), the variable's value is not unset (as it parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argu‐ present, then SIGTERM is assumed. An argument of -l lists the shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] display the result on the standard output. Does not
delimiter following meanings: it as a shell variable. ence. strings they output. using the first and third arguments as operands. The -a isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') characters \, $, and `. matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash comple‐ extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been \' literal ' Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow sym‐ input line, rather than newline. search. each function name supplied as an argument. causes the shell to save the command with embedded newlines instead of is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ tents of the directory stack. Directories appear in the stack The value of this parameter is used as a format string specify‐ This variable, when set to On, causes readline to match files exists but does not have a numeric value, or has no value, the ter, and one character too many. If a correction is fully. Generate possible completion matches for word according to the to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, shell parser are saved on the history list, subject to the value prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] sions is invalid. the line is read but before the array element is assigned. or until keyword, part of the test following the if or If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote played. of fractional digits after a decimal point. A value of 0 causes declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS). ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immediately appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an names matching a pattern. If GLOBIGNORE is set, each matching filename posix Change the behavior of bash where the default end-kbd-macro (C-x )) is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching True if the length of string is non-zero. Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to delete-char-or-list The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ -k file display-shell-version (C-x C-v)
