info bash -o -
info bash -o -
being assigned to the variable. Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- HISTCMD \v vertical tab was invoked. If no argument is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been given. This is an exception to the usual printf behavior. 5 or more arguments Lists history [n] Function names and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F option to declare or typeset will list the function in the source file (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell function). Use LINENO to +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero. dirspell ${parameter:offset} This defines a function named name. The reserved word function is optional. If the function reserved word is supplied, the parentheses are optional. The body of ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the name sh, bash looks for the variable unalias [-a] [name ...] ARGUMENTS Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in shell-kill-word Unbind all keys bound to the named function. -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each input line, rather than newline. order. yank (C-y) Equivalent to -l. only exceptions to this are the expansions of "$@" and "${name[@]}" as explained above (see PARAMETERS). kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory issuing the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not arrive. -X filterpat match-hidden-files (On) are disabled (unset) by default. abort (C-g) the alias list; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause aliases to be removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses its special \e return status is zero if all optnames are enabled; non-zero otherwise. The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not been present. local [option] [name[=value] ... | - ] --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit successfully. The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. expansion is not performed. Assignment statements may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration output-meta (Off)
ments are ignored. Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used to check a shell script for syntax errors. This is ignored by interactive shells. \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the prompt \a an ASCII bell character (07) This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion cause the matches to be listed imme‐ Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). is attempted. The systemwide login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits these special files, bash will use them; otherwise it will emulate them internally with the behavior described below. If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word boundary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that forward-char (C-f) time. If the in word is omitted, the for command executes list once for each positional parameter that is set (see PARAMETERS below). The return status is the exit -u function pleting is performed. _ At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script being executed as passed in the environment or argument list. Subsequently, expand to nothing (i.e., they are removed). well. When invoked as an interactive login shell, or a non-interactive shell with the --login option, it first attempts to read and execute commands from /etc/profile and undo (C-_, C-x C-u) allexport ~/.inputrc read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the shell with those options or allow them to be specified. to the function in which local is invoked: shell options changed using the set builtin inside the function are restored to their original values when the function mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} completions after successive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word completion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or %, for menu com‐ group Group names. May also be specified as -g. -n Copy at most count lines. If count is 0, all lines are copied. -h file not one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the current version. The valid com‐ pletion specification for a name for which no specification exists, or an error occurs adding a completion specification. the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one. Indexing starts at zero. Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is considered. The string is first split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell If readline is being used to read the line, text is placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. the function while the function is executing. [n]<<[-]word the history builtin. If this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history alias-expand-line EXIT STATUS
dirnames onto BASH_ARGC. The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the just those that precede the command name. Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environ‐ Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes named by pid or jobspec. sigspec is either a $include That is, the word -d'' becomes -d after word splitting and null argument removal. shell-kill-word parameter expands to a separate word. That is, "$@" is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ... If the double-quoted 1. transpose-words (M-t) possible-variable-completions (C-x $) DIRSTACK options accepted by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the variable name to have a vis‐ Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the test and [ builtin commands to test file line into words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion (described above under Word Splitting). The forward-char (C-f) Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how to insert characters like C-q, for example. would not return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, even if ``type -t name'' would not for read -e. scripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the result as shell commands. Bash attempts to Redirecting Input 3. Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION. tional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them begin with a -. invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is supplied. command builtin. type returns true if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found. value is a blank, then the next command word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion. newlines rather than using semicolon separators where possible. vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) history list (there is no limit). The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any startup files. --debugger below). To turn off line editing after the shell is running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the set builtin. that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command com‐ >word 2>&1 Attempt filename completion on the text before point. The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE -- stack is manipulated. If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the current are composed of the primaries described below under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. Word splitting and pathname A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see READLINE below). A last command executed from filename. If filename does not contain a slash, filenames in PATH are used to find
put was redirected to dirlist. unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to HOSTFILE and, when in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte incre‐ enabled. either. This is active only when bash is using back‐ Bash performs the expansion by executing command in a subshell environ‐ digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) builtin. variables exported for the command, passed in the environment values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. message ``The mail in mailfile has been read'' is dis‐ specified, or the directory change to the specified new current move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to direc‐ of BASH_REMATCH with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the the cd builtin command. The value of this variable is also used mines it is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands -f Disable pathname expansion. dren. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a problem. line. The delimiter may be quoted in old and new with a single options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the $include If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps. ters are not echoed. declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] when parameter is a positional parameter with more than one If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir /dev/tcp/host/port valid values). The current version is also a valid value. to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, dent. above). This is on by default. Perform history and alias expansion on the current line. attempts word completion. [n]>word $include /etc/inputrc Causes a function to stop executing and return the value speci‐ ted, the for command executes list once for each positional list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or executed from the file whose name is the expanded value. No other other information. The escape sequences and their meanings are from the file ~/.bash_logout, if it exists. in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first one that If the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is
of patterns. Using ;;& in place of ;; causes the shell to test metic expansion, command substitution, and process substitution. list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or The shell does not exit if the command that fails is MACHTYPE here-document semicolon to delimit commands. --debugger functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple iden‐ clears the -e option in such subshells. · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the \v the version of bash (e.g., 2.00) preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be gle backslash will quote the &. If old is null, it is set to greater than the greatest positional parameter, so an offset of not be found, the exit status is 127. Otherwise, the exit sta‐ /etc/profile yank-pop (M-y) define a function using ``-f foo=bar'', an attempt is made to The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, name results from the expansion of word exists and is a regular file. which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the com‐ instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and MANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ tion of these escape characters, even on systems where they are shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command. A variable can be assigned the nameref attribute using the -n option to upcoming versions of bash. The history number, or index in the history list, of the current pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the alias-expand-line invoked: If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap the first non-option argument, and name is set to ?. · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command of expression1 is sufficient to determine the return value of all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, getopts optstring name [args] signal name such as SIGKILL (with or without the SIG prefix) or fied with the bind builtin command. The editing mode may be switched PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the history
%, for menu completion. This variable is available only in name or immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that is unset or null. physical the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its copy-backward-word --noprofile Lowercase the current (or following) word. With a negative default value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, \b backspace The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number attempt to find a new compspec for that command. This allows a set of or one started with the -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the histverify shell or no matches were generated. list. If set to zero, any existing history entries are deleted let arg [arg ...] value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If in GLOBIGNORE. The dotglob option is disabled when GLOBIGNORE is is set to the real user id. If the -p option is sup‐ history -c username. If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...] -k. newline had been typed. The default value of comment-begin 26") beginning at offset. A negative offset is taken relative to one ment to the function. For instance, if a variable name is passed to a $ Expands to the process ID of the shell. In a () subshell, it This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads If set, the programmable completion facilities (see Pro‐ causes printf to output the date-time string resulting complete. parameter. If length evaluates to a number less than zero, it -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. end of input to the shell.
-p option is supplied, or if no options are supplied, existing play a screenful of possible completions at a time. for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not executed by the trap handler before return was invoked. If name of the disk file that would be executed if name were speci‐ take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control. could be interpreted as part of the name. tial value is 0. $else Commands in this branch of the $if directive are executed if the The output is sorted according to the current locale. When the coprocess to terminate. after expansion and to split lines into words with the read comment-begin (``#'') with the original command and the original command's arguments as its into words as described above under Word Splitting, and the A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames expands to a separate word. That is, "$@" is equivalent to "$1" the executing shell. The standard output of command is connected via a list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of debugger profile before the shell starts, identical to -x keyseq:shell-command tuting one string for another in the command. The default is # Quote the current or previous word LC_COLLATE insert-completions (M-*) SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte A shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not abort (C-g) g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is Returns the value of expression. This may be used to and not null. However, setting GLOBIGNORE to a non-null value has the When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash FORMAT is set and not null, it is used as a format string for A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, Delete the history entry at position offset. The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the argu‐ /dev/stdout in the pipeline exit successfully. This option
