info bash -o -
info bash -o -
\# the command number of this command \c suppress further output n The nth word. -X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the associated commands in a format that can be reused as input. \u the username of the current user specifies the command to be executed, and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. monitor Same as -m. parameters to be set when invoking an interactive shell. ${#parameter} Same as -a. the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified by the additional options. If no other options are supplied with -p, declare will display to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to backward-delete-char replace the character before point with Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the control of the format. The -v option causes the output to be assigned to the variable var rather than history-size (unset) fashion); word splitting; and pathname expansion. If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to. ating systems that do not handle this executable format themselves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented temporarily by prefixing it with parameter assignments, as described above in PARAMETERS. These assign‐ new builtin from a shared object. -b file enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. MANDS below). pletion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). below). keymap (emacs) The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL ${parameter:=word} beginning of the line, Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. the -o option to the set builtin command. With no options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or not mand listed under Compound Commands above, with one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the parentheses are not supplied, the braces are required. read [-ers] [-a aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] Equivalent to -D. The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is xpg_echo True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the default) to words completed at the end of the line. -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the vari‐ LC_TIME
whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has output-meta (Off) _ At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script being executed as passed in the environment or argument list. Subsequently, lowing the if or elif reserved words, part of any command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipe‐ ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). shells. number) and the characters between the single quotes are considered quoted. This is the behavior of posix mode through version 4.1. The default bash behav‐ list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is script is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] interrupt any other output. If the -b option to the set builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child keyword Same as -k. The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain circumstances (see the let and declare builtin commands, the (( compound command, and Arithmetic set-mark (C-@, M-<space>) The default key-bindings may be changed with an inputrc file. Other programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. ! expression Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a negative argument. This command is If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at invocation, the shell becomes restricted. A restricted shell is used to set up an environment more ally. Controls whether readline begins with a set of key bindings similar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or vi. Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed. case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another command Read key bindings from filename. colored-completion-prefix (Off) ters to lowercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character in the expanded value; the ^ and , expansions match and convert only the first character Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remembered. Any previously-remembered path‐ these escape characters by default. echo does not interpret -- to mean the end of options. echo interprets the following escape sequences: Q The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter quoted in a format that can be reused as input. Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric argument, save the deleted text on the kill ring. but faster $(< file). Delete the history entry at position offset. places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with an empty A ] may be matched by including it as the first character in the set. When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not escaped by a backslash or within a quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, com‐ ! ~ logical and bitwise negation way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. The test command sorts using ASCII ordering.
SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. cuted by the trap handler before return was invoked. If return is used outside a function, but during execu‐ lowing character. patterns in GLOBIGNORE. The dotglob option is disabled when GLOBIGNORE is unset. The pattern matching honors the -u Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input. comparison cdable_vars the while and until commands is the exit status of the last command executed in list-2, or zero if none was rent command to fail (the default behavior is to make them fatal errors that cause the shell to exit), the above example: out a name argument, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification for a name for which no specifi‐ expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the beginning or end serves to delimit words. If printed (see PARAMETERS below). The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the standard input. If EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell starts with value "t", it assumes that the shell names, in that order. a name that is not a function. G Apply the following `s' modifier once to each word in the event line. -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both options The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names may not be changed by subsequent assignment. list, no commands are executed, and the return status is 0. BASH_ALIASES ters. When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. If multiple optname arguments are given with -q, the return status is zero if all optnames are enabled; &>>word -z string case may be included, depending on the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the is to represent itself. menu-complete-backward chet.ramey@case.edu case-insensitive signal name such as SIGKILL (with or without the SIG prefix) or a signal number; signum is a /etc/bash.bashrc complete-into-braces (M-{) Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharac‐ default, then sequences of <space>, <tab>, and <newline> at the beginning and end of the results of the previous plete line of input before executing any of the commands on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, been given the integer attribute using declare -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates to 0. A shell vari‐ histverify word in the line. --version -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set)
readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by match-hidden-files (On) printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal con‐ The shell function function is executed in the current command has complete freedom in generating the matches. a filename. This filename is passed as an argument to the current com‐ each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end as follows; the braces denote optional portions. builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as current source until a line containing only delimiter (with no trailing omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. disable-completion (Off) FILES an error occurs. -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline zero. This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin. Individual array OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a Similarly, the redirection operator Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by \u the username of the current user C-x C-r is bound to the function re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the matching words elif reserved words, part of any command executed in a Same as -H. rections take effect in the current shell, and the return status after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes tion (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions forming case-insensitive filename matching and completion. By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A parts. The first is to determine which line from the history list to except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as the current locale. The test command sorts using ASCII ordering. Word Designators been present. the next pattern list in the statement, if any, and execute any fied with the bind builtin command. The editing mode may be switched through the history as necessary. This is an incremental
matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. failed command is part of the command list immediately following # Expands to the number of positional parameters in decimal. command has complete freedom in generating the matches. Word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the is being used, and the histreedit shell option is enabled, a failed argument. This option is enabled by default. fied with complete -D. It's possible for shell functions executed as above). play a screenful of possible completions at a time. · importing function definitions from the shell environment at This is semantically equivalent to the beginning of the value of parameter, then the result of the value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an value of each array member separated by the first character of the IFS A positional parameter is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, \E an escape character -W wordlist all the commands in the subshell. itself quoted, the \<newline> is treated as a line continuation (that or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the supplied by the user in the filename to be completed. -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless named command_not_found_handle. If that function exists, it is invoked An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When tion resumes after the function or script. The last command in the history list is removed before Names of all shell variables. May also be spec‐ must be separated from list by whitespace or another shell which a completion specification (a compspec) has been defined using the last old substituted, or, if no previous history substitu‐ $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, decreasing order of precedence: If used with `:s', any delimiter can be used in place of /, and tus of the command builtin is the exit status of command. line that looks like: option indicates that the remaining options and actions should affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a `:'. Readline Conditional Constructs -s Display only stopped jobs. if the leading character is a single or double quote, the value relative to the current line from the history for editing. Any Compound Commands
of HISTIGNORE. The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line in a double-quoted string. tiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indi‐ acters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is Moving File Descriptors There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard file as a directory. An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell adding a completion specification. ing on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a shell with ment is one of the unary conditional operators listed ment count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, daemon, usually rshd, or the secure shell daemon sshd. If bash deter‐ variables exported for the command, passed in the environment that of the last command executed in the function body. If When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will zero if n is greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0. operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and { list; } faster $(< file). next-history (C-n) \\ a backslash it as a hostname. value of 2, and the shell is executing in a sub‐ \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with <= >= < > the mark is set to that position. return [n] needs more input to complete a command. Bash displays PS0 after it the return status is 126. is being used, and the histreedit shell option is enabled, a failed when the format string is displayed. for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the history denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ be quoted to prevent history expansion. -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a getopts optstring name [args] BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). passed to the shell parser. Instead, the expanded line is reloaded moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard --noprofile If set, the return value of a pipeline is the
declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS). if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi This is another way to specify an argument. If this command is text, including " and '. status values from the processes in the most-recently-executed words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, argument, capitalize the previous word, but do not move point. autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text FILES input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is pany-system format. The default is system-dependent. a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values rep‐ mand as the result of the expansion. If the >(list) form is used, forward-search-history (C-s) It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the active login shell exits. Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any char‐ Pathname Expansion the last command executed in the list. initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets the expansion is not within double quotes, each positional option is enabled (see the description of the shopt builtin below), and here-document pattern matching. vi. argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to ments may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, needs more input to complete a command. Bash displays PS0 after it contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error current bash session. only the first character in the expanded value. If pattern is sion in the EXPANSION section. HISTORY files where each corresponding member of FUNCNAME was invoked. defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ confusing. Bash always reads at least one complete line of input meanings: -k. the characters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the or <newline>. A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop quoted strings preceded by a $. fully determined after a successful directory change, cd will
