info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with the same collation weight (as defined by the A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list. If the list of values includes ignorespace, lines which begin with a space FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked. Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. \a an ASCII bell character (07) disable-completion (Off) service Service names. May also be specified as -s. names only (and optionally the source file and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions may be exported so that subshells automatically have them tor. Each operator is a single letter: If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > /dev/stderr This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion -h file read returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. completions after successive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word completion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or %, for menu com‐ The redirection operator copy-forward-word When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. shell with history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled (see the description of After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters appears, then the word is regarded begins with ~), hostname (if the text begins with @), or command (including aliases and functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename completion ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. the . or source builtins), the shell simulates a call to return. If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COLUMNS. -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution. This is enabled by default. return is used outside a function, but during execution of a script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that script and return either n The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells than the number of enclosing loops, the last enclosing loop (the ``top-level'' loop) is resumed. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1. return file. If a command is hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is used, type -P prefix -g file True if file exists and is a block special file. If readline is being used to read the line, text is placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. Same as -E. The command arg is to be read and executed when the shell receives signal(s) sigspec. If arg is absent (and there is a single sigspec) or -, each specified signal option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the If you find a bug in bash, you should report it. But first, you should make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest version of bash. The latest able. -v The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell and, on some systems, to its children ters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number without a leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full pathnames in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIGNORE. Use this variable to ignore shared library files
-i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when the variable is assigned a value. \t horizontal tab \nnn the character corresponding to the octal number nnn dirs builtin. Assigning to members of this array variable may be used to modify directories already in the stack, but the pushd and popd builtins must be used to If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of the three-argument expression composed of the remaining arguments. Otherwise, the expression is · the current working directory [1] 25647 The order of expansions is: brace expansion; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution (done in a left-to-right output-meta (Off) -v Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be re-read. $endif Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred to using a filename. It takes the form of <(list) or >(list). The process list is run asyn‐ If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to. COMP_CWORD Do not use the GNU readline library to read command lines when the shell is interactive. \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not supplied, no startup files are read, shell func‐ True if file exists and is set-group-id. ues). The current version is also a valid value. vious value. This includes arguments to builtin commands such as declare that accept assignment statements (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for binding, so the standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non- Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, show-all-if-unmodified (Off) Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command A ] may be matched by including it as the first character in the set. the generated completions against the word being completed is performed; the function or command has complete freedom in generating the matches. This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. Line editing is also used when in the hash table; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause command names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is unset, it loses its prefix is added at the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been applied. ``<space><tab><newline>''. cal to the while command, except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The exit status -S file following the cursor are not duplicated. Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- issue when functions are executed. Aliases are expanded when a function definition is read, not when the function is executed, because a function definition is itself a are supplied, the expression expands to each number between x and y, inclusive. Supplied integers may be prefixed with 0 to force each term to have the same width. When other special file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. If read times out, read saves any partial input read into the specified variable name. dle. If that function exists, it is invoked with the original command and the original command's arguments as its arguments, and the function's exit status becomes the command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. -P List current readline function names and bindings. variable formed from the rest of parameter as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than
Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as a token. ALL bug reports should include: history-and-alias-expand-line not result in a compspec, any compspec defined with the -D option to complete is used as the default. This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer than in or on file descriptor 0 if n is not specified. If the file does not exist, it is created. bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq] If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed function while the function is executing. natives on partial word completion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or %, for menu com‐ to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion of word. SHELL GRAMMAR comma PARAMETERS If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed If readline is being used to read the line, text is placed into the editing buffer before editing True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. name initially supplied does not exist. -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name reference. errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing character, and one character too many. If a \r carriage return -k All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not yank-pop (M-y) the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to case. if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi group Group names. May also be specified as -g. · the current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or inherited by the shell at invocation name=[value] pletions. Repeated execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible completions, inserting each patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: [-+]O [shopt_option] bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expansion in the EXPANSION -T option is enabled, source inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is saved and When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for which a completion specification (a compspec) has specification; if a job spec is given, all processes in that job's pipeline are waited for. If n is not unset. possible-username-completions (C-x ~) simulates a call to return. · using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell builtins If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed since the last time it was M-Control-u: universal-argument
space character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, builtin (in which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN newline had been typed. The default value of comment-begin traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the -o errtrace shell unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to The history number, or index in the history list, of the current menu-complete-backward are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). coproc [NAME] command [redirections] attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as sh, bash readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, the executing shell. The standard output of command is connected via a as follows; the braces denote optional portions. and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions must be separated from list by whitespace or another shell Assignments to FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, of the last command executed in list-2, or zero if none was exe‐ there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a status of can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one of default. to using a filename. It takes the form of <(list) or >(list). The pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file suffix is appended to each possible completion after all one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or Omitting the colon results in a test only for a parameter that is ronment equivalent to command substitution. It should print a list of (see Coprocesses above). matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is the coprocess to terminate. pushd [-n] [dir] line output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the out‐ if this command is immediately followed by a character that is The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of text ``> output'' into the line). set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences may include commands restored from the history file (see HISTORY tion of the value of parameter or information about parameter EXPANSION the -e option from the parent shell. When not in posix mode, bash representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If to Off. The variables and their default values are: be meaningful. If LINENO is unset, it loses its special proper‐ mand substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see EXPAN‐ using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arith‐ the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior
A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail. The is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is -m Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is the compspec generates no matches. so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as another file to be read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the If set, bash checks the window size after each command expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of list of all readonly names is printed. The other options may be from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc. BUGS -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was decreasing order of precedence: errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. COMP_POINT ronment or argument list. Subsequently, expands to the last globstar glob-list-expansions (C-x g) (declaration commands). When += is applied to a variable for which the `command` specified as -b. sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed started with the effective user (group) id not equal to /dev/fd/fd and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads only if the second argument is null. If the first argu‐ <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not -R varname fied by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, tions specified by the command (see REDIRECTION below). If |& is used, BASHPID beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignor‐ hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] after expansion and to split lines into words with the read cated. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to fied with complete -D. It's possible for shell functions executed as function and its caller. ates to -, file descriptor n is closed. If n is not specified, the 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands
means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a job‐ form is used, the return status is that of the command re-exe‐ if the compspec generates no matches. complete. page-completions (On) that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow sym‐ inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to forward-backward-delete-char by the user or be part of the contents of the current line. be used as option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts -P prefix is the event, and the portions of that line that are acted upon are name=value. optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is replaced unsetting array elements currently does not cause aliases to be Provides control over the resources available to the shell and tially supplied does not exist. lowed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a (see Modifiers below). alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print ^ The first argument. That is, word 1. the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the line, this transposes the last two words on the line. True if file1 is newer (according to modification date) than ily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is tion of whether or not each is enabled. If -s is supplied, the no commands are executed), and false if filename is not found or the fraction is included. point. A user typically employs this facility via an interactive builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. plete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. BASH_SUBSHELL by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexico‐ Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing new‐ COMPREPLY command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially plusdirs tory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is specific settings. Each program using the readline tion). Use LINENO to obtain the current line number. stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible com‐ returned. If the -p option is used, type either returns the all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, locale) as the character c. If set, bash replaces directory names with the results enable the globasciiranges shell option. A - may be
number of history entries is set to the value of the HISTSIZE fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit generated, directory name completion is is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file descriptor 0, only directories and subdirectories match. variables exported for the command, passed in the environment Coprocesses will be affected by the -e setting, even if -e is set mand. callback] [-c quantum] [array] Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utili‐ Arithmetic expansion allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression BASH_ENV The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, considered quoted. This is the behavior of posix mode BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of files are executed, allowing the startup files to dis‐ against lines from the history list for possible completion name. wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0. Commands able. SIGNALS Incremented by one within each subshell or subshell environment each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between zero. by default when the shell is interactive. the -r option below). input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. digit is closed after Same as -E. commands quickly. negative argument. This command is unbound by default. opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. no characters are required to isolate it. shell with those options or allow them to be specified. first character of the redirection operator is >, the redirection that file descriptor is assigned to NAME[1]. This pipe is established -q Suppresses normal output (quiet mode); the return status If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell If command is specified, it replaces the shell. No new process the shift count exceeds the number of positional parame‐ insert-comment (M-#) take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred
