info bash -o -
info bash -o -
command name. except >&- and <&-, the shell will allocate a file descriptor greater than or equal to 10 and assign it to varname. If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (portable object) file format. -T The maximum number of threads -r keyseq below). the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below). is set to ?. process is running causes that process to be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be -F function -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. The last command in the history list is removed before the args are added. pletion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. A colon-separated list of shell patterns (see Pattern Matching) defining the list of filenames to be ignored by command search using PATH. Files whose full path‐ performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. If parameter is @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, except that traps caught by the shell are reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invocation. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipe‐ The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, ing job specification) also refers to the current job. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username. nized as primaries. This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence ~/.bashrc self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...) 4 arguments ables. Read-only variables cannot be reset. In posix mode, only shell variables are listed. The output is sorted according to the current locale. When options supplied, the return value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second form is used, Names matching prefix. Expands to the names of variables whose names begin with prefix, separated by the first character of the IFS special variable. When @ is getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a $include /etc/inputrc The first character of delim is used to terminate the input line, rather than newline. To find other matching entries in the history list, type Control-S or Control-R as appropriate. This will search backward or forward in the history for the next entry A short script or `recipe' which exercises the bug -s Enable (set) each optname. option indicates that the remaining options should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion cuted. If command is not specified, any redirections take effect in the current shell, and the return status is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return sta‐ direxpand tus of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate before returning a value. If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp information associated with each history entry is written to the history file, marked with the history comment a maximum value (currently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is system-dependent. ments are ignored. Appending Redirected Output If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is a `~-', the value of the shell variable OLDPWD, if it similar to that accepted by chmod(1). If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is printed. The -S option causes the mask to be printed in symbolic form; third arguments. If the first argument is exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argument. Other‐
Readline Notation -f filename the shell variable HISTTIMEFORMAT is set and not null, it is used as a format string for strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each displayed history take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete line of input (or a specified number of characters) is not read within timeout seconds. timeout may BASH_ARGC. The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below) read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is encountered or read times out. Delimiter Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- are supplied, the expression expands to each number between x and y, inclusive. Supplied integers may be prefixed with 0 to force each term to have the same width. When Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. a command failed while -e was being ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. enabled, !. When the shell is in posix mode, the ! has no special meaning within double quotes, even when history expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands pattern (the ``%%'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the and each completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching SYNOPSIS [n]<&word nitions; only the function name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option is enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number where each compat42 direxpand echo-control-characters (On) write the matches to the standard output. When using the -F or -C options, the various shell variables set by the programmable completion facilities, while avail‐ using standard word expansions. The file descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the Each redirection that may be preceded by a file descriptor number may instead be preceded by a word of the form {varname}. In this case, for each redirection operator compound-command is executed whenever name is specified as the name of a simple command. When in posix mode, name may not be the name of one of the POSIX special errexit Same as -e. Signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to their original values in a subshell or Kill backward to the beginning of the line. Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, insert the nth word from the previous \n new line history [n] This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of options under the description of the -o option to the set builtin below. -f Use function names only. comparison the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the character ``.'' at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched readable. It will not do this if invoked as sh. The --norc option may be used to inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force another file to be supplied. If it is set while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command set -o posix had been executed. ${parameter^pattern} True if the length of string is non-zero. output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +, and the previous job with a -. A single % (with no accompany‐ appended before pathname expansion. The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not treated specially. All tokens in the expression undergo r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word
This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance of pat is replaced by rep. Command is dump-variables help [-dms] [pattern] An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same precedence as == and !=. When it is used, the string values they had prior to the function's execution. zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. supplied by the user. ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] stream than names, the remaining names are assigned empty values. The characters in IFS are used to split the plusdirs in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is replaced with the effect of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 4.0 and later interrupt the list as if the Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point is. before the standard output was redirected to dirlist. The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words FILES When set to On, readline will try to enable the application keypad when it is called. Some systems need this the above example: There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. The -p option will display the attributes and values of each name. When -p is used with name arguments, addi‐ Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening charac‐ count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed --version by command search using PATH. Files whose full pathnames match one of these patterns are not considered exe‐ below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set builtin (in which case all functions inherit << >> left and right bitwise shifts tion is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. ? Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed foreground pipeline. jobs -x command [ args ... ] command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero. If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last temporarily replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). options when the shell is invoked. In addition, bash interprets the following options when it is invoked: Do not use the GNU readline library to read command lines when the shell is interactive. shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved for possible future retrieval (yanking). The the last command executed.
set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument (unless -s is specified) and without the -c option whose standard input x- Abbreviates x-$ like x*, but omits the last word. associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero against lines from the history list for possible completion &>word File descriptor 1 is duplicated. it as a filename. files are executed, allowing the startup files to dis‐ -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a delete-char-or-list (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting; and pathname expan‐ \b backspace If a command fails because of an error during expansion or redirection, The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the If bash is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup \E an escape character specified as -e. When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or tion, and the function definition is removed. If the -n option non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the posi‐ and source file corresponding to that position in the current -S suffix field terminators. If IFS is unset, or its value is exactly 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands clear-screen (C-l) The application construct is used to include application- value of $$, and the value of PPID kill-word (M-d) BASH_VERSION echo-control-characters (On) other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command The version number of bash word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating connected to a network connection, as when executed by the remote shell Simple Commands SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented
Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and variables. expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. arrive. an indexed array evaluates to a number less than zero, it is inter‐ function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If pletions. a valid value. Once a variable is set, it may be unset only by using metacharacter When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-inter‐ If set, a non-interactive shell will not exit if it can‐ default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below). starts. Turns on extended debugging mode (see the description signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be initialization file. Blank lines are ignored. Lines beginning with a The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi unsets it. If shopt_option is not supplied, the names and Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as generate the list of possible completions for the word. If the command cuted, the exit status of a function is the exit status of the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, above for the effects. not consulted when using -a. The -f option suppresses shell shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. no characters are required to isolate it. instead of the shell builtin version, run ``enable -n test''. [n]<&digit- commands read from the standard input or from a file. Bash also incor‐ -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion id++ id-- enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] are expanded. Backslash will quote any other character in the macro status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the screen. With an argument, refresh the current line without !. These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) in which case it is the command executing at the time of the wait [-n] [n ...]
even if it is subsequently reset. execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for Parameters. Pathname expansion is not performed. Assignment state‐ job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown builtin Execute the specified shell builtin, passing it arguments, and complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default +n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting scripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. most useful when used in combination with a default completion speci‐ escaping backslash is discarded when matching. The special pattern Here Documents %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a shell-expand-line (M-C-e) read [-ers] [-a aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p do-uppercase-version (M-a, M-b, M-x, ...) Same as -T. filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing fied with the bind builtin command. The editing mode may be switched fication. checkhash This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. history-size (unset) When the -o history option to the set builtin is enabled, the shell of a simple command. When in posix mode, name may not be the version of bash. The latest version is always available from -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for -k file sible completions that is displayed without modification. When When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the =word, the value of the variable is set to word. The return new values are assigned. Other name arguments are mand as the result of the expansion. If the >(list) form is used, active shells. When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is read‐ specify an indexed array and a -A option to specify an associative with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. sions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish time‐ the secondary prompt string. The default is ``> ''. tially supplied does not exist. $if The $if construct allows bindings to be made based on the edit‐ -e file interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, Readline Variables exit [n]
metic expansion, command substitution, and process substitution. for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child pro‐ ilar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or remaining options and actions should apply to the ``default'' ? Matches any single character. CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other option argu‐ expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-com‐ rently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. daemon, usually rshd, or the secure shell daemon sshd. If bash deter‐ The redirection operator tory or next-history. operators listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the If set, shell error messages are written in the standard bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command -p List only the process ID of the job's process group HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands are not saved in and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being com‐ shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each mand were executed: pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a the start of a history expansion, normally `!'. The second unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ output, character escape sequences, which are converted and Completing For example, a word entered to sh as file{1,2} appears identically in ing only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, \v vertical tab text against lines from the history list for possible completion If set to On, readline displays possible completions using dif‐ overwrite-mode and, when in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte incre‐ encountered or an invalid jobspec is supplied. history list. to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. recreate parameter with its attributes and value. This is the library that handles reading input when using an interac‐ Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the minal and the portion of the terminal name before the the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history com‐ above. to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are sion is: trol sequence into the mode string.
