info bash -o -
info bash -o -
conditional operator backward-delete-char (Rubout) not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are simply listed on the terminal. the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function. The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number of fractional digits after a decimal point. A value of 0 causes no decimal point or fraction to be checkwinsize supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale. Note that both x and y must be of the same -n Read the history lines not already read from the history file into the current history list. These are lines appended to the history file since the beginning \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits) The list of shopt options is: non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. plied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the being assigned to the variable. -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. functions, shell builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. unset using the -n option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the name of a nameref variable as an argument, the variable referenced by the nameref kill-region pipeline exit successfully. This option is disabled by default. An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to the current position in the his‐ A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for subsequent occurrences. Word Designators The GLOBIGNORE shell variable is not used to filter the matches, but the FIGNORE variable is used. ters to lowercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character in the expanded value; the ^ and , expansions match and convert only the first character jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ] If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding the \w and \W prompt string escapes ing the bell. -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new argument. M-- starts a negative argument. When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COMMAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. completion-display-width (-1) -C command removed from the environment passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RANDOM, SECONDS, LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or DIRSTACK are unset, failglob intervening separators. Toggle the values of settings controlling optional shell behavior. The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the -o option is used, those available with >>word 2>&1 inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argument. References and assignments to ref, and changes to its If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing the suspend character (typically ^Z, Control-Z) while a builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed when the function is executed. The exit status of a function if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the MAILPATH variable is not set, bash informs the user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ parameter starting at the character specified by offset and extending to the end of the value. length and offset are arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUA‐ vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. This also affects the editing interface used for read -e. This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE. Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding elements in BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE to describe the call keymap (emacs)
variable . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 Lists by the shell. Search forward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. This is a non-incremental search. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirections specified by the command A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. Once a variable is set, it may be unset only by using the unset builtin command (see wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. history-search-forward True if string1 sorts after string2 lexicographically. ( expression ) Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). skip-csi-sequence Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See SEE ALSO below for a reference to a quent references is the number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ If a compound command or shell function executes in a context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands executed within the compound command or func‐ The pathname expansion pattern globpat is expanded to generate the possible completions. BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the programmable completion facilities are invoked. hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] the . or source builtins), the shell simulates a call to return. The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: overwrite-mode Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the options. The :, true, non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for the inputrc file. FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. LC_ALL This variable overrides the value of LANG and any other LC_ variable specifying a locale category. possible-username-completions (C-x ~) standard output. Otherwise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing those commands. If ename is not given, the value of the FCEDIT variable is & bitwise AND -n Read the history lines not already read from the history file into the current history list. These are lines appended to the history file since the beginning tus of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate before returning a value. PARAMETERS In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion that exits. Quote Removal the history list. subdirectories. definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs or a readonly function with the same name already exists. When executed, the exit status of a function is the exit recall. · setting or unsetting the values of SHELL, PATH, ENV, or BASH_ENV This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated \v vertical tab entry. No intervening blank is printed between the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; If parameter is @, the result is length positional parameters beginning at offset. A negative offset is taken relative to one greater than the greatest positional
100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh exponentiation Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word boundary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. cuted, the first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are being completed, the upon entrance to the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; if not, the value of HISTFILE is used. -n Display information only about jobs that have changed status since the user was last notified of their Move to the first line in the history. This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer than in Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, to the exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not exit if exec fails. is encountered or an error occurs. mands from this file, then exits. Bash's exit status is the exit status of the last command executed in the script. when the compspec was defined, directory name completion is attempted. The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh. This section If a compound command or shell function executes in a context where -e is being ignored, none of the mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied, array is invalid or Keyboard Macros taken from the value of the INPUTRC variable. If that variable is unset, the default is ~/.inputrc. When a program Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to key bindings and variable settings. assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is sub‐ return status is that of the last command executed in the function body. If return is executed by a trap han‐ When bash is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for example, it looks for the variable BASH_ENV in the The format for a coprocess is: Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list containing string. The in the environment passed to the shell's children. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a problem. enabled, a failed history substitution will be reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The -p possible-variable-completions (C-x $) whether or not the fraction is included. This is analogous to the expansion of the special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ (see Special Parameters above). ${#name[sub‐ or until keyword, part of the test in an if statement, part of a command executed in a && or || list except If set, the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion above) are enabled. This Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all If set, bash does not print a warning message if an attempt is made to use a quoted compound array fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] Similarly, the redirection operator ${parameter:offset:length} let arg [arg ...] A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list.
instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file If set, bash does not process the replacement string in \v the version of bash (e.g., 2.00) These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. the coprocess to terminate. =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export returns supplied, each name refers to a variable; if there is no vari‐ When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or or until keyword, part of the test following the if or punct space upper word xdigit [n]<&digit- -k file opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. expansion of the items following in results in an empty list, no context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the stan‐ Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history option is supplied, a description of command is printed. The -v mand substitution, and quote removal. The result is treated as the used, type prints all of the places that contain an executable low a command. Redirections are processed in the order they appear, << >> left and right bitwise shifts described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are match characters after point in the word being completed, so a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'. required File descriptor 2 is duplicated. colored-stats (Off) command or shell function sets -e while executing in a be used to add and remove directories. Assignment to this vari‐ arguments to the invoked command. If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an inter‐ If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several argument, capitalize the previous word, but do not move point. tors may precede or appear anywhere within a simple command or may fol‐ moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input match-hidden-files (On) used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a substituted is the number of positional parameters. If parame‐ Commands for Manipulating the History shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed
reading input from a terminal, pipe, or other special sent numbers between 10 and 35. one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir determine the status is the last command executed before the Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, trailing colon. The default path is system-dependent, and is separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using tus is 0 unless the shell is a login shell and -f is not sup‐ (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP inherit_errexit bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] readline does not insert characters from the completion that exit if exec fails. ters, inclusive, using the current locale's collating descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the disabled An array variable containing all of the parameters in the cur‐ and no new entries are saved. If set to a value less than zero, shell variable. treats hyphens (-) and underscores (_) as equivalent when per‐ dard. expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of return its exit status. This is useful when defining a function If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is _ At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation Arithmetic expansion allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format option causes a single word indicating the command or filename \e an ASCII escape character (033) with respect to locale-specific string comparison when BUGS directory names separated by spaces. Directories are added to Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline com‐ used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly Use this variable to ignore shared library files that have the more digits, the file descriptor denoted by n is made to be a copy of builtin shell-builtin [arguments] specified attribute or to give variables attributes: ~/.bashrc all remaining characters on that line to be ignored. An interactive
mark-directories). \UHHHHHHHH supplied, have the following meanings: compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings Same as -p. If read times out, read saves any partial input read into filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit sta‐ Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing leader. eter is then substituted. Positional parameters and special commands quickly. differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-gen‐ with zero. process is stopped, the shell immediately executes the next command in shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. the second and third arguments. If the first argument is are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. printf [-v var] format [arguments] tion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or argument. This option is enabled by default. SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; Numeric Arguments mand, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is exit status of list. If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive common prefix of the set of possible completions using a differ‐ fixed with 0 to force each term to have the same width. When either x an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP to all jobs, running or ~/.bash_logout line. The delimiter may be quoted in old and new with a single able. In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of sequence and character set, is matched. If the first Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell erated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are readable. of -1 references the last element. popd [-n] [+n] [-n] editing state.
Assignments to FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a spec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return late between A and B, and upper-case and lower-case it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently pipefail completion-display-width (-1) Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string variable name passed as the first argument. References and assignments kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches line. returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process wise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous com‐ SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. or negative integers. input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirec‐ name may appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or name () compound-command [redirection] history expansion in csh. This section describes what syntax features Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete If either -s or -u is used with no optname arguments, shopt BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of necessary to preserve syntactic correctness. The lithist shell option also performed. Consequently, one may use filenames with tildes in if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, wise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. [[ expression ]] BASH_VERSINFO[2] The patch level. writing the history file's contents. and no new entries are saved. If set to a value less than zero, this variable is assigned a value, the history file is trun‐ to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted text is assumed to be a func‐ -p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are /var/mail/$USER). rather than using semicolon separators where possible. -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. expands to a separate word. That is, "$@" is equivalent to "$1" default completion function would load completions dynamically: current command line. When it finishes, the possible Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pat‐ M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to ters encountered in the input are not treated specially -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the spe‐ [abcd], set value of the LC_ALL shell variable to C, or
