info bash -o -
info bash -o -
? Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed foreground pipeline. If set to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it will not strip the eighth bit from the characters it reads), regardless of what the terminal claims -R varname Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed by the user or be part of the \M- meta prefix expansion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ are disabled (unset) by default. If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote in a double-quoted parameter expansion as a special character. The single quotes must match (an even forward-char (C-f) The expression is false. Incremented by one within each subshell or subshell environment when the shell begins executing in that environment. The initial value is 0. is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the the resultant list. Show version information for this instance of bash on the standard output and exit successfully. +n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top. The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern is used to generate a list of matching the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below). builtin Names of shell builtin commands. May also be specified as -b. time a shell function or a script executed with the . or source builtins finishes executing. The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is redrawn. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is Move to the end of the line. is replicated multiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indirection. The default is ``+ ''. [n]>word binding, so the standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non- tions may be changed while the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file to Fetch the previous command from the history list, moving back in the list. It's too big and too slow. -O file pair appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the \<newline> is treated as a line continuation (that is, it is removed from the input stream and effectively ating systems that do not handle this executable format themselves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name continue [n] editing buffer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the user typed. FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked. Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro. SIGNALS redraw-current-line definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs or a readonly function with the same name already exists. When executed, the exit status of a function is the exit Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters replaced as specified by the ANSI C standard. Backslash If a command is terminated by the control operator &, the shell executes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not wait for the command to finish, -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that only the stack is manipulated. export [-fn] [name[=word]] ... resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the listed in order of decreasing precedence. input. If a variable name is followed by =word, the value of the variable is set to word. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of
array beginning at one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or added as additional key-value pairs in an associative array. When applied to a login_shell through the list of possible completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of keyseq-timeout (500) Readline provides commands for searching through the command history (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are two search modes: incremental -m Display the description of each pattern in a manpage-like format Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output sion below). The word is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution and A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma or a valid sequence expression. Any incorrectly formed process group (processes whose process group ID is equal to the current terminal process group ID) receive keyboard-generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are and their intervening delimiters are assigned to the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input stream than names, the remaining names are assigned otherwise the return status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". kill-region If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the current options are printed. If +o is supplied with no option-name, a series of set commands to Incremental searches begin before the user has finished typing the search string. As each character of the search string is typed, readline displays the next entry from The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal. Pathname expansion command (the words in the previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argument n It must put the possible completions in the COMPREPLY array variable, one per array element. HOSTFILE editing can be enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). To turn off line editing after the shell is Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the prompt and each completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte increments. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an error occurs while set‐ /bin/bash An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the text read by the mapfile builtin when no variable name is supplied. \E an escape character if any, and execute any associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the last command -u function Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument that is significant. Passing a expr1 -a expr2 able. If an attempt is made to set history-size to a non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be set to 500. to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to backward-delete-char replace the character before point with the end of the line; no characters are required to isolate it. The order of expansions is: brace expansion; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution (done in a left-to-right not changed. The return status is greater than zero if n is greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0. The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, bash waits until it is about to print a prompt before reporting changes in a job's status so as to not current locale) as the character c. True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. job Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as -j.
ulate the selected words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when reading input, so that several In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arith‐ shell comment. If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be removed, the line will be executed by compat31 expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or it appears in the latest version of bash. The latest version is always available from First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches which are prefixed by the word being completed words to be completed. This means that dollar signs in variable names that expand to directories will retain when expanding the \w and \W prompt string escapes (see PROMPTING below). Characters removed are If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, is assigned to SECONDS, the value returned upon subsequent references is the number of seconds since the Execute the specified shell builtin, passing it arguments, and return its exit status. This is useful when -s Display only stopped jobs. MANDS below). An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in each frame of the current bash execution call to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options appearing in SHELLOPTS are those -G file The && and || operators do not evaluate expression2 if the value of expression1 is sufficient to determine the The index of the current cursor position relative to the beginning of the current command. If the current value, which is also evaluated. When += is applied to an array variable using compound assignment (see Arrays Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word bound‐ chronous command or using the bg builtin (see JOB CONTROL below). is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions: special builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, removes the top directory from the stack, and If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU error message format. Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full pathnames in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIG‐ If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue with the next command in the 2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are expanded. If any words remain after expan‐ current working directory. It uses the physical directory structure instead. By default, bash fol‐ The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). command Command names. May also be specified as -c. a shell variable, and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be unset. If -f is specified, The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, bash waits until it is about to print a prompt If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several extended pattern matching operators are rec‐ Job number n may be referred to as %n. A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the name used to start it, or into the prompt kill-line (C-k) parison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators (see previous item) and the effect -u Disable (unset) each optname.
The following conditions are applied in the order listed. current option settings is displayed on the standard mands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started $'...' quoting mechansim. of the shell variables HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL. to the value of the hard limit. If neither -H nor -S is speci‐ listing format uses a tilde to denote the home directory. Redirecting Output true. The redirection operator (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the mines it is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands fer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point. operator is considered a pattern and matched according to the rules the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is shell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inher‐ null string, as appropriate, had been supplied. The return valid shell option. Coprocesses \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above). ${#name[subscript]} expands to the length of ${name[sub‐ that character. A negative count searches for previous occur‐ to the shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not state. instead of ringing the bell. directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Alternative <= >= < > ated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the file‐ in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file equivalent to -l. kill returns true if at least one signal was Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the or until keyword, part of the test following the if or used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. The -s getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-o comp-option] [-DE] [-A action] [-G glob‐ commands and redirections using standard word expansions. The file instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next return [n] scripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is applied Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash able: process substitution. This is performed at the same time as
For example, placing or y begins with a zero, the shell attempts to force all generated literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, helptopic one, so executing this function the first time makes the argu‐ status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". \v vertical tab that character. A negative count searches for previous occur‐ prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the matching words waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ binary operators return true if arg1 is equal to, not equal to, /var/mail/$USER). Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below). Word splitting is not updated to reflect the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The name of a nameref variable as an argument, the variable referenced by a signal number; signum is a signal number. If sigspec is not function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a with the -D option to complete is used as the default. integer attribute has been set, value is evaluated as an arithmetic %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. the command, with any trailing newlines deleted. Embedded newlines are spec's behavior beyond the simple generation of comple‐ The first form lists the active jobs. The options have the fol‐ between the start of the current line and the point. This is a ment, switches to overwrite mode. With an explicit non-positive not executed. replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command List the possible completions of the text before point, treating BUG REPORTS trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] [n]<<<word COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed. If If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS). sages. ters are not echoed. option to the set builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes Simple Commands
or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a `:'. execution to continue with the list associated with the next set ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interac‐ file is truncated to contain no more than HISTFILESIZE lines. If HIST‐ tions took place, the last string in a !?string[?] search. stitution. of which causes printing of the next successive argument. In BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). truncated to this size after writing it when a shell exits. If Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utili‐ completions. compspec has been defined for that command, the compspec is used to The format is a character string which contains three types of beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignor‐ unless a syntax error occurs, in which case it exits with a non-zero assigned to the variable var rather than being printed to the members are as follows: Omitting the colon results in a test only for a parameter that is retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the charac‐ portions of the word following the cursor are not duplicated. copy-backward-word is the one-argument test of the second argument. Other‐ options must appear on the command line before the single-character Wait for each specified child process and return its termination tory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when stty \a alert (bell) If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an inter‐ operators listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the with the original command and the original command's arguments as its True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to the Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirec‐ When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the process. its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with bashdefault diagnostic message is printed. If getopts is silent, then a pathname expansion context, two adjacent *s used as a be quoted to prevent history expansion. character-search-backward (M-C-])
readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special mean‐ The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the follow‐ used in conjunction with `:s' (e.g., `:gs/old/new/') or `:&'. character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be stopped !# The entire command line typed so far. the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side able is read-only. ries. compspec has been defined for that command, the compspec is used to %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. set by default, which is the default bash behavior in The compiler used to compile regardless of what the terminal claims it can support. The name expand_aliases mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the copy-region-as-kill the shell's parent Delete the character at point. If this function is bound to the array element contains one possible completion. ALIASES True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is or arithmetic expansion. The parameter name or symbol to be expanded context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands simple command, if unquoted, is checked to see if it has an alias. If · options enabled by shopt expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expan‐ that may be reused as input. If a variable name is followed by long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS white‐ shell enters posix mode before reading the startup files, as if bell-style (audible) the current locale. The test command sorts using ASCII ordering. the last command executed within the script as the exit status bered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the enters posix mode after the startup files are read. p Print the new command but do not execute it. COMMANDS for a description of the various compatibility levels -r Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option
