info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Killing and Yanking the in word is omitted, the positional parameters are printed (see PARAMETERS below). The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the standard input. If below). AND and OR lists are sequences of one or more pipelines separated by the && and || control operators, respectively. AND and OR lists are executed with left associativity. behavior intended for use by debuggers is enabled: When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. The test command sorts using ASCII ordering. Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to remember. Bash will not allow this value to be decreased below a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is (see REDIRECTION below). If |& is used, command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is connected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list. If the list of values includes ignorespace, lines which begin with a space GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the current user is a member. Assignments to GROUPS have no effect. If GROUPS is unset, it loses its spe‐ mark-directories (On) tions and `philosophical' bug reports may be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug. Simple Commands sent to the standard error. Note that setting BASH_XTRACEFD to 2 (the standard error file descriptor) and then unsetting it will result in the standard error being The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not treated specially. All tokens in the expression undergo ARGUMENTS subsequently reset. -p file is computed, the argument is extracted as if the "!n" history expansion had been specified. print-completions-horizontally (Off) If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any additional arguments following dir are beginning with # causes that word and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored. An interactive shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not match. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. A leading ! negates the pattern; in this case any completion not matching the pattern will autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument to the cd command. This option is only used by interactive is the exit status of list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are reserved words and must occur where a reserved word is permitted to be recog‐ evaluated repeatedly until it evaluates to zero. Each time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero value, list is executed and the arithmetic expression expr3 is evaluated. CONT to ensure that they receive the SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown skip-csi-sequence Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirections, as described in the following table. If the operating system on which bash is running provides status of the last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +, and the previous job with a -. A single % (with no accompany‐ The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the vari‐ List of array keys. If name is an array variable, expands to the list of array indices (keys) assigned in name. If name is not an array, expands to 0 if name is of the current bash session. properties, even if it is subsequently reset. If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the specified interpreter on oper‐ unalias [-a] [name ...]
Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G option are generated next. The words generated by the pattern need not match the word being completed. Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is considered. The string is first split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one. Indexing starts at zero. begin with a -. alias has been defined. patibility levels correspond to the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are valid val‐ interrupt any other output. If the -b option to the set builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child page-completions (On) The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command, unless the pipefail option is enabled. If pipefail is enabled, the pipeline's return status is the The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. comp-option may be one of: isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') able. and unit are printed before the value. Other options are interpreted as follows: errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command to fail (the default behavior is to make them fatal errors that cause the shell to exit), and does not nized as primaries. \t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format variable formed from the rest of parameter as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the environment. This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form name=value. history -p arg [arg ...] In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the redirection refers to the standard The following symbolic character names are recognized: RUBOUT, DEL, ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC, SPACE, and TAB. arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of sig‐ escape characters, even on systems where they are interpreted by default. The xpg_echo shell option may be used to dynamically determine whether or not echo expands +n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top. --posix For example, placing SEE ALSO set-mark (C-@, M-<space>) the history matching the string typed so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as needed to find the desired history entry. The characters present \c suppress further output current command number). If last is not specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that ``fc -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first oth‐ The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below). 6. Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the ERR trap. must evaluate to a number. To explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the values they had prior to the function's execution. When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The first backquote not preceded by a NAME Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the shell (see Brace Expansion above). unit. Redirecting Output
startup files. In this mode, interactive shells expand the ENV variable and commands are read and executed from the There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions of sh, mostly because of the POSIX specifica‐ shell-expand-line (M-C-e) FILES possible-variable-completions (C-x $) direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to act in a backward direction. Commands whose behavior with argu‐ attribute modifications to the variable whose name was passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the The process of applying these completion specifications when word completion is attempted is described above end-of-file is encountered, read times out (in which case the status is greater than 128), a variable assign‐ for builtins before disk commands. If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are enabled. For default. · the current working directory An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, delete-char (C-d) -o comp-option is used to filter the matches. \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format suffix is appended to each possible completion after all other options have been applied. non-zero otherwise. If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion. Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell starts. Turns on extended debugging mode expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails. -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For exam‐ fix, you are encouraged to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may be mailed to bug- the suspend character (typically ^Z, Control-Z) while a process is running causes that process to be stopped and those instead. expansions. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. that are subject to language translation when the current locale is not C or POSIX. This implies the -n -N file is to represent itself. cuted sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of with the read builtin command. The default value is ``<space><tab><newline>''. It's too big and too slow. If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than or equal to arg2, respec‐ ated word list. The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When this variable is assigned a value, the his‐ (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. readonly names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If a glob-expand-word (C-x *) ters with the same collation weight (as defined by the current locale) as the character c.
for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as -u function are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and program. For instance, the following command adds a key line, before attempting to read any input. The prompt is REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test file can test for a particular value. This could be used supplied, all alias definitions are removed. The return value ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to script]}. If subscript is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the expansion is the number of ele‐ Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as verbose Same as -v. In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. Commands for Manipulating the History the command, with any trailing newlines deleted. Embedded newlines are True if file exists. Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or pathname expansion pattern also matches one of the patterns in Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline com‐ escape characters by default. echo does not interpret -- to -f Use function names only. execution trace. The first character of PS4 is replicated mul‐ True if file exists and is a character special file. history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the acters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is ment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of the current executing commands such as cd that change the current set-mark (C-@, M-<space>) embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter extquote autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. command [-pVv] command [arg ...] Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of result is the length members of the array beginning with
shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not allow the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its \f form feed sion is: history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled & Repeat the previous substitution. name of the current mailfile. Example: the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the program‐ first word is assigned to the first name, the second word to the Programmable Completion below). word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion. is given, each jobspec is not removed from the table, but is the list is a valid argument for the -s option to the shopt When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is tion associated with each history entry is written to the his‐ the number of history entries is not limited. By default, the character-search (C-]) $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating · the file creation mode mask In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a forward-char (C-f) If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear working directory. It uses the physical directory words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion n is specified). the cd builtin command. The value of this variable is also used Insert a tab character. the shell is interactive. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, not previously active) editing settings. executed. If the -p option is given, the search for command is -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to index is 0. places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing BASH_LOADABLES_PATH lar sign from the set of characters that will be quoted with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ conditional tus of the last command executed in the script. If no commands are associated commands in a format that can be reused as LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a adjacent *s will match only directories and subdirecto‐ not read within timeout seconds. timeout may be a deci‐ compat42 cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to
If read times out, read saves any partial input read into \cx a control-x character complete key sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, parameter that is set (see PARAMETERS below). The return status that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is tuting one string for another in the command. The default is menu-complete-backward indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multi‐ Readline Command Names rections take effect in the current shell, and the return status command no longer exists, a normal path search is per‐ If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to string1 != string2 directories and subdirectories. If followed by a /, two ${parameter} List the possible completions of the text before point, treating completions to be built dynamically as completion is attempted, rather off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to DIRSTACK ters are set to the args, even if some of them begin indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi bash waits until it is about to print a prompt before reporting changes additional input. If this variable is set to a value less than insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in the arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below). the LS_COLORS environment variable. -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list ated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the file‐ cuted. new values are assigned. Other name arguments are If set to On, when listing completions, readline displays the Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell Special Parameters -w file expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell completion-map-case (Off) specified, the trailing newline is suppressed. If the -e option To facilitate the implementation of the user interface to job control, in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirec‐ quoted strings preceded by a $. capitalize-word (M-c) current option settings is displayed on the standard can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one of
may be exported so that subshells automatically have them defined with index is 0. array is not an indexed array. inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function attribute is disabled. interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted by rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless Shell Variables dence as == and !=. When it is used, the string to the right of the Capitalize the current (or following) word. With a negative If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not OLDPWD The previous working directory as set by the cd command. typed. The value of the HISTSIZE variable is used as the number of played history entry. No intervening blank is printed between function definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs or a && logical AND tern (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the When the shell is in posix mode, time may be followed by a newline. In above for the effects. If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A first directory in the stack. parentheses make up the command; none are treated specially. the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. mand substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see EXPAN‐ before attempting a match. The second and subsequent lines of a value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the True if file1 and file2 refer to the same device and inode num‐ pathname expansion context, two adjacent *s used as a off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains sequence and character set, is matched. If the first below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell the expanded value of parameter is tested against pattern, and, be specified by separating the filename from the message with a Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard array element contains one possible completion. overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history file is True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. of the script. If n is supplied, the return value is its least part of the command list immediately following a while by the nameref variable's value. A nameref is commonly used within assigned value. The option can be any of the options accepted --norc Do not read and execute the system wide initialization file
