info bash -o -
info bash -o -
${FUNCNAME[$i]} is defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. id++ id-- -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG /etc/profile The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented temporarily by prefixing it with parameter assignments, as described above in PARAMETERS. These assign‐ the backslash escapes described above are expanded. Backslash will quote any other character in the macro text, including " and '. kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name. TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input after declare -n ref=$1 nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the default) to words completed at the end of the line. Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirections, as described in the following table. If the operating system on which bash is running provides value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell. These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. expr1 , expr2 HISTTIMEFORMAT MACHTYPE A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail. The message to be printed when mail arrives in a particular file may be specified by separating the descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username. An OR list has the form also be referred to using a prefix of the name used to start it, or using a substring that appears in its command line. For example, %ce refers to a stopped ce job. If a 0 arguments removed from the environment passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RANDOM, SECONDS, LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or DIRSTACK are unset, call completes. a command failed while -e was being ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. of word exists and is a regular file. If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and the noclobber option to the set builtin command is not value. The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables. If set, the source (.) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file supplied as an argument. This option is enabled by default. -a aname A login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a -, or one started with the --login option. This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence . filename [arguments] history -p arg [arg ...] MANDS). Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of sig‐ functrace >word 2>&1 The format for appending standard output and standard error is: command below.
builtin Names of shell builtin commands. May also be specified as -b. fully changed; false otherwise. shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard output was redirected to dirlist. change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output. The return value is true if the directory was success‐ regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syn‐ Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. Without options, remove each jobspec from the table of active jobs. If jobspec is not present, and neither the -a nor the -r option is supplied, the current job is Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the control of the format. The -v option causes the output to be assigned to the variable var rather than A sample value is ".:~:/usr". job Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as -j. --rcfile file INPUTRC tution, the exit status of the command is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a sta‐ not apply any syntactic interpretation to the context of the expansion or the text between the braces. TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select command terminates if input does not arrive after Only brace expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can change the number of words of the expansion; other expansions expand a single word to a single word. The When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support it, readline echoes a character corresponding to a signal generated from the keyboard. below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set builtin (in which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps), and the ERR trap is not \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format ${!name[*]} cial properties, even if it is subsequently reset. Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches. the history file is not truncated. PROMPTING above. This option is enabled by default. BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the programmable completion facilities are invoked. True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as unix-word-rubout (C-w) and unit are printed before the value. Other options are interpreted as follows: \H the hostname extdebug substitution word expansions, or when filtering possible completions as part of programmable completion. array subscripted by @ or *, or an associative array name, the results differ as described below. If length is omitted, expands to the substring of the value of effect of causing pending output and typeahead to be discarded. Perform history expansion on the current line. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. M-Control-u: universal-argument cally in the output. The same word is output as file1 file2 after expansion by bash. If strict compatibility with sh is desired, start bash with the +B option or disable shell option nullglob is not enabled, the word is left unchanged. If the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is removed. If the failglob shell the commands in the subshell. The && and || operators do not evaluate expression2 if the value of expression1 is sufficient to determine the return value of the entire conditional expression.
True if file exists and is a socket. Tilde Expansion ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select then until while { } time [[ ]] Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. unless caught, suspends the process. taining commands to initialize the shell, as in ~/.bashrc. The value of BASH_ENV is subjected to parameter A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -s option -p List only the process ID of the job's process group leader. digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) The general format for redirecting input is: process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status is the exit status of the last process return status is zero. expansion, normally `!'. The second character is the quick substitution character, which is used as shorthand timestamps are optionally displayed depending on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a shell with history with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options inter‐ uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase letters to lowercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that only the BUG REPORTS from each name. If a variable name is followed by =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export extdebug word being completed. is the event, and the portions of that line that are acted upon are words. Various modifiers are available to manip‐ p Print the new command but do not execute it. \C- control prefix by redirections. comment-begin (``#'') The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, bash waits until it is about to print a prompt Controls whether readline begins with a set of key bindings similar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of backslash escapes is available: @(pattern-list) tion. ment, getopts places that argument into the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automatically; -x keyseq:shell-command -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above). -p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell func‐ allows key bindings and variable settings to be performed as the result of tests. There are four parser directives mat for arithmetic expansion is: If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the --dump-po-strings the editing interface used for read -e. If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is unchanged.
collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the cur‐ The application construct is used to include application- name if it does not exist, and the index of the next argument to expansion of the items following in results in an empty list, no -b Report the status of terminated background jobs immedi‐ are available. This feature is enabled by default for interactive read. word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to { or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status tions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared. tus of the last command executed, or zero if no condition tested --noediting bg [jobspec ...] not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, then the x key. This makes ESC the meta prefix. The combination M-C-x command1 || command2 PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) \cx a control-x character A synonym for yank-last-arg. Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to -f Disable pathname expansion. omitted if the word designator begins with a ^, $, *, -, or %. Words entries. used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly name of one of the POSIX special builtins. Any redirections hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) -P prefix dent. Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as essary. Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation A character is read and point is moved to the next occurrence of kill-line (C-k) this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Com‐ to the shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print also performed. Consequently, one may use filenames with tildes in Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The Names matching prefix. Expands to the names of variables whose Variables above).
--restricted Same as -T. command. % The word matched by the most recent `?string?' search. ters is to be used. sion. The exceptions to this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and quote removal. Pathname expansion and word splitting are not per‐ named command_not_found_handle. If that function exists, it is invoked When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell filenames status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". $include /etc/inputrc Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is from using datefmt as a format string for strftime(3). True if expression is false. cuted from filename. If filename does not contain a slash, If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home direc‐ the startup behavior is the same, but the effective user id is not the last command executed in the list. the syntax [:class:], where class is one of the following is enabled. If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may pleted. Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when skip-completed-text (Off) is supplied, the functions corresponding to the names are so user User names. May also be specified as -u. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, if this command is immediately followed by a character that is character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as \C- control prefix traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the -o errtrace shell test fails. If no names are supplied, the line read is assigned to the vari‐ unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the is made to find a compspec for the portion following the final slash. Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word bound‐ expansion character, but the history expansion character is also history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the stores a series of commands for later execution. When the name of a COMP_TYPE various shell variables set by the programmable completion -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on the exit status is 0 if command was found, and 1 if not. If sions contained a command substitution, the exit status of the command
trailing colon. The default path is system-dependent, and is (starting with 1) within a script or function. When not in a statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will compat32 checked for are transposed characters, a missing charac‐ shell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inher‐ warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. printf [-v var] format [arguments] If set to On, the history code attempts to place point at the filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suf‐ and their effects. The value may be a decimal number (e.g., list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in during interactive use by using the -o option to the set builtin com‐ to Off. The variables and their default values are: value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job. Returns the value of expression. This may be used to file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. name of the shell, which is used in warning and error mes‐ or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a `:'. · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the . ning of the current command. If the current cursor position is lastpipe operation differs from the POSIX standard to for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done \t horizontal tab PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to the ing symbol symbol. instead of ringing the bell. If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp informa‐ Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line. The to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on one or more newlines, and may be followed by a newline in place of a sigspec is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes. backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. expression1 && expression2 \r carriage return nate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name parentheses to force it into a subshell, which may be stopped as a shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd alias [-p] [name[=value] ...] Redirecting Output HISTORY. This option is on by default in inter‐
Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes ${parameter:?word} If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port on the variable referenced by name's value. The nameref ior intended for use by debuggers is enabled: shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to \n newline value of $$, and the value of PPID set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an exit sta‐ If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a ${!prefix*} bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave variables exported for the command, passed in the environment When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the The if list is executed. If its exit status is zero, the then Here Documents below. signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, ALIASES are read. The result is not split on the characters in ments in the array. If the subscript used to reference an element of keyword Shell reserved words. May also be specified as search. cannot be read. tion specification with the same flags. If word is specified, The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no charac‐ -d offset input line, rather than newline. less than zero, the history file is not truncated. When the history If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it input. internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ] enabled by default. primary prompt when emacs editing mode is active. The value is Unbind all keys bound to the named function. are not specified as accepting options interpret arguments beginning signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be
