info bash -o -
info bash -o -
patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to lines read up to that point are then used as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a command. -p prompt option; +O unsets it. If shopt_option is not supplied, the names and values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on the standard output. If the Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. command below. the history file is not truncated. Same as -C. command [-pVv] command [arg ...] For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed. Read- If set, the history list is appended to the file named by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell exits, rather than overwriting the file. If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the command to exit with a non-zero while reading the name of the current directory or an invalid option is supplied. BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of bash. history-expand-line (M-^) http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/ -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG (including arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are referenced using arbitrary strings. Unless otherwise noted, indexed array indices must be True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as ger value greater than or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether or \UHHHHHHHH resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the varname defines the file descriptor to close. After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves (quote removal). Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. begins with a ^, $, *, -, or %. Words are numbered from the beginning of the line, with the first word being denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line BASH_VERSINFO[3] The build version. If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, then -f is assumed. Values are in True if file1 is newer (according to modification date) than file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not. When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COMMAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. inherited unless the -o errtrace shell option has been enabled. If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked as described above in builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed when the function is executed. The exit status of a function The expression is false. OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). RESTRICTED SHELL The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resultant word is expanded. The possible completions are the ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into the background, whether executed as an asynchronous command or using the bg builtin (see JOB CONTROL
that case. Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to chet.ramey@case.edu. similar to that accepted by chmod(1). If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is printed. The -S option causes the mask to be printed in symbolic form; [1] 25647 All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical between a function and its caller with these exceptions: the DEBUG and RETURN traps (see the description A sample value is ".:~:/usr". erwise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing. -f Disable pathname expansion. -v The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell and, on some systems, to its children rather than wrapping to a new line. expansion. separated by single spaces. True if file exists. compat40 notify Same as -b. tion operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that did not result from one of the above expansions are removed. Control-o: "> output" [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option Redirections are processed in the order they appear, from left to right. -r file C-Meta-u: universal-argument Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new top of the stack the current working directory. With no arguments, pushd no jobspec is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a jobspec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return instances of .. in dir (see also the -P option to the set builtin command); the -L option forces symbolic links to be followed by resolving the link after processing able. If an attempt is made to set history-size to a non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be set to 500. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, if the user so specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. Background processes which attempt to read from The number of screen columns used to display possible matches when performing completion. The value is ignored if it is less than 0 or greater than the terminal with the value of each array member separated by the first character of the IFS special variable, and ${name[@]} expands each element of name to a separate word. When continue it in the background, the fg command to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it. A ^Z takes effect immediately, and has the additional side delimiter This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, readline(3) comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. %(datefmt)T Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above for a description of alias expansion.
The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in the results of pathname expansion. mark-symlinked-directories (Off) True if file exists and is a symbolic link. variable, an attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric argument, save the deleted text on the kill When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to nothing (i.e., they are removed). FUNCNAME string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter expansion. environment that consists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the shell. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each LINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes the value of 128+N as the exit status. at 1 by default. If offset is 0, and the positional parameters are used, $0 is prefixed to the list. Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. x-y A range of words; `-y' abbreviates `0-y'. If set, the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion above) are enabled. This ! expr True if expr is false. If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder BASH_VERSINFO[3] The build version. parison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators (see description of compat31) and the command whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. Delete all spaces and tabs around point. cial meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special meaning only when followed by one of the fol‐ List of array keys. If name is an array variable, expands to the list of array indices (keys) assigned in LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or DIRSTACK are unset, they lose their special properties, even if they are Miscellaneous An OR list has the form !n Refer to command line n. On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the variable HISTFILE (default ~/.bash_history). The uates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex dig‐ If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for Clear the screen leaving the current line at the top of the screen. With an argument, refresh the current descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. tory file is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than that number of lines by removing the oldest stack. The number of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or script executed with . or Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of word shell-kill-word Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the setting of bell-style).
shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. command substitutions, and commands executed in a sub‐ wise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing into the readline editing buffer for further modification. If readline subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and even if ``type -t name'' would not return file. If a command is -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the spe‐ for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E onecmd Same as -t. than 128), a variable assignment error (such as assigning to a values of option are those valid for the complete builtin ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RAN‐ emacs mode. 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the behavior. functrace using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with If the second argument is one of the binary conditional When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexico‐ a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is a maximum value (cur‐ -w file Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop. If n is objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard only be referenced; assignment to them is not allowed. The first form selects a range of commands from first to last each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration commands). the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: command and an optional list of arguments, the following actions are name expansion (see Pathname Expansion below). The word is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alpha‐ of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating \r carriage return script executed with . or source) is at the top of the stack. BASH_ALIASES inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the option is encountered. name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its value if it is A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows equal to ${#COMP_LINE}. This variable is available only in first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of the func‐
the set. A ] may be matched by including it as the first The compiler used to compile bell-style) and the original text is restored. An argument of n nothing (i.e., they are removed). brackets. If the pattern is stored in a shell variable, quoting the Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The to each resulting string, expanding left to right. BASH_VERSINFO[3] The build version. history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the Commands for Changing Text filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suf‐ [n]<&word COMPREPLY inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in receipt of a SIGWINCH. arguments to the invoked command. Execute the specified shell builtin, passing it arguments, and In this example, C-u is again bound to the function universal-argument. tory expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte The expression is parsed and evaluated according to If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec sist of a number without a leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. [-+]O [shopt_option] Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the envi‐ LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a xtrace Same as -x. Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. those used by shell-backward-word. bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" The list of expansions that would have been generated by SIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric value exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result variable aname, starting at 0. aname is unset before any shopt builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a the symbolic character names are not recognized. character-search-backward (M-C-]) -N nchars -d file slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the
The operator the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set sion of word to be opened for reading on file descriptor n, or the command to exit with a non-zero status. integer attribute has been set, value is evaluated as an arithmetic dard input. If the line consists of a number corresponding to indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the slashes, bash searches each element of the PATH for a directory con‐ tion) also refers to the current job. Any variable may be used as an indexed array; the declare builtin will at least one space to avoid being confused with the :- expan‐ -s file The return value of a simple command is its exit status, or 128+n if ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, bash reads these same as those used by forward-word. trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] ing mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file cur‐ ercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character fied by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is ning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a ison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: ARITHMETIC EVALUATION the value of HISTFILE is used. Options, if supplied, have the colored-stats (Off) When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COM‐ if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list been accessed since the last time it was checked, the ment count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, normal operation, diagnostic messages are printed when invalid the kill-ring. · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with stitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded receives a SIGHUP. If no jobspec is supplied, the -a option directories in which the shell looks for commands (see COMMAND $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, line. Any delimiter can be used in place of /. The final with the corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be calls determines the direction to move through the history. A cesses. Executed commands inherit the environment. The export and input line, rather than newline. cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir]
invocation, the shell becomes restricted. A restricted shell is used hostcomplete output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an onecmd Same as -t. acters in range expressions is determined by the current tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and command sub‐ an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned con‐ used. Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, RESTRICTED SHELL slashes, bash searches each element of the PATH for a directory con‐ $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard loop) is resumed. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater -b The maximum socket buffer size stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIGCONT to ensure that they receive the It will not do this if invoked as sh. The --norc option may be used to either integers or single characters, and incr, an optional increment, cannot be read. while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the the file descriptor to close. \v vertical tab defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from True if the length of string is non-zero. Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit success‐ ated from the keyboard. ${parameter[offset]}. A negative offset is taken relative to M-Control-u: universal-argument available for subsequent recall. search string becomes the current line. strings they output in such a way that they can be re- \n new line sible completions that is displayed without modification. When variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which and store the definition. driver and bash. used to escape a newline, if necessary. Control-G will abort an incremental search and restore the original truncated to this size after writing it when a shell exits. If completes and execution resumes with the next command after the func‐ shell function. It is ignored in all other cases. The follow‐ Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce
