info bash -o -
info bash -o -
it is subsequently reset. Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and the longest match of pattern against RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between 0 and 32767 is generated. The sequence of random numbers may be initialized by assigning a value to SHELLOPTS Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the control of the format. The -v option causes the output to be assigned to the variable var rather than environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command. If command cannot be executed for some reason, a non-interac‐ MANDS). --noediting Splitting, and the first word is assigned to the first name, the second word to the second name, and so on. If there are more words than names, the remaining words and OPTERR If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). OPTERR is initialized to 1 each Readline Key Bindings If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no slashes, bash searches each element of the PATH for a directory containing an executable file by that yank-pop (M-y) characters between offset and that result. Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by at least one space to avoid being confused with the :- attempted, and the readline default of filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, the bash The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. handles in the current shell execution environment. The following redirection operators may precede or appear anywhere within a simple command or may follow a command. exit is made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. \e POSIX-conformant by default. The TIMEFORMAT variable may be used to specify the format of the time information. corresponding then list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit status of the last If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. onecmd Same as -t. of HISTSIZE after reading any startup files. upcase-word (M-u) it exists. value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job. BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). BASH_REMATCH. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index n is Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. This is a non-incremental search. HISTORY EXPANSION dump-functions Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. the description of the shopt command under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). \r carriage return status of the last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it. First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches which are prefixed by the word being completed are returned. When the -f or -d option is used for standard output. Backslash may be used to escape a newline, if necessary. builtin below). SECONDS
sent to the standard error. Note that setting BASH_XTRACEFD to 2 (the standard error file descriptor) and then unsetting it will result in the standard error being If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. The list of shopt options is: $endif <= >= < > OP is one of -eq, -ne, -lt, -le, -gt, or -ge. These arithmetic binary operators return true if arg1 is equal to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, COLUMNS Delete all spaces and tabs around point. terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), or one started with the -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file The format of here-documents is: BASH_VERSINFO[0] The major version number (the release). defined alias. sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. the attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option inhibits the display of function defi‐ \t horizontal tab True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and bash does not try to This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words which have more than one possible Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is sup‐ keymap (emacs) the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. Tell readline that the compspec generates filenames, so it can perform any filename-specific processing (like adding a slash to directory names, Kill the text in the current region. file descriptor open for output, a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not double quote may be quoted within double quotes by preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes be followed by a newline in place of a semicolon. cuted. If command is not specified, any redirections take effect in the current shell, and the return status is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return sta‐ diately executes the next command in the sequence. It suffices to place the sequence of commands between parentheses to force it into a subshell, which may be stopped as a is not a shell builtin command. The following symbolic character names are recognized: RUBOUT, DEL, ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC, SPACE, and TAB. builtins and shell control structures is printed. Names of all shell variables. May also be specified as -v. · the file creation mode mask as set by umask or inherited from the shell's parent with the same name may result in multiple identically-named entries in the environment passed to the shell's children. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a \a an ASCII bell character (07) [n]>>word Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top. Only works following yank or yank-pop. Shell Variables filenames
copy-region-as-kill Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash character as the word boundaries. The killed text performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. If parameter is @ or *, the substitution oper‐ mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may application cuted. Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can prefix is added at the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been \e an escape character is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. menu-complete-backward possible-command-completions (C-x !) The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each ele‐ Delete the character at point. If this function is bound to the same character as the tty EOF character, as If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no slashes, bash searches each element of the return value is true unless a supplied name is not a defined alias. The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. ALIASES Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to chet.ramey@case.edu. tive number, that number is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maximum index of name, so negative between x and y, inclusive. Supplied integers may be prefixed with 0 to force each term to have the same width. Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input or from a to the set builtin below. command terminates if input does not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an mands). When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or more instances of the command valid compatibility levels correspond to the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin described value of parameter is substituted. name. If the -t option is supplied, the full pathname to which each name corresponds is printed. If multiple Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening charac‐ When the coprocess is executed, the shell creates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context of Automatically set to the name of the current host. \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell -p List only the process ID of the job's process group leader. slash will quote any other character in the macro text, including " and '. If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled using routine (a shell function or a shell script executed by the . or source builtins), the shell recognized. Since they do not cause a word break, they must be separated from list by whitespace or another Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word bound‐ DIRSTACK comment-begin (``#'') successful directory change, cd will return an unsuccessful status. On systems that support it, the -@ option subscripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maximum index the format is passed to strftime(3) and the result is inserted into the prompt string; an empty format to the exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not exit if exec fails. Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the list of possible com‐
The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export returns HISTTIMEFORMAT command, select command, or arithmetic for command, dis‐ more digits, the file descriptor denoted by n is made to be a copy of Automatically set to a string that uniquely describes the type OP is one of -eq, -ne, -lt, -le, -gt, or -ge. These arithmetic echo [-neE] [arg ...] size. When set to On, readline will try to enable any meta modifier $'...' quoting mechansim. TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The fol‐ mable completion facilities are invoked. disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] recreate parameter with its attributes and value. If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status argument to tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as to readline() starts in insert mode. In overwrite mode, charac‐ the command arguments, if any. If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive a terminal control sequence into the mode string. insert-comment (M-#) return is executed by a trap handler, the last command used to sion in the EXPANSION section. cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] BASH_EXECUTION_STRING *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. searches the directories in PATH for the script. Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described new values are assigned. Other name arguments are /var/mail/$USER). preted as relative to one greater than the maximum index of the array, tent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate cursor position. This variable is available only in shell func‐ --rcfile file is the status of the last command exited within the script (0 if
text ``> output'' into the line). arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment. On dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in executing commands such as cd that change the current comments. The interactive_comments option is on by default in interac‐ setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set attempt to find a new compspec for that command. This allows a set of immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that /dev/stderr execution to continue with the list associated with the next set ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. yank-pop (M-y) 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired com‐ adding a completion specification. tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including Redirecting Standard Output and Standard Error When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, files are executed, allowing the startup files to dis‐ and variable settings to be performed as the result of tests. There If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set than being loaded all at once. (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ expanded. If any words remain after expansion, the first word If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is dupli‐ placed in the environment for a command, not just those [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] variable the list with the pushd command; the popd command removes treated as quoted if it immediately precedes the closing double quote Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line. This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A sin‐ completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not erwise it will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file leader. Positional Parameters print-last-kbd-macro () Move forward a character. ments in the array. If the subscript used to reference an element of directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is tions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to
exiting if any jobs are stopped. slashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is using the current locale. trap handler. if return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each specific settings. Each program using the readline builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with this variable is assigned a value, the history file is trun‐ HISTFILESIZE chet.ramey@case.edu options under the description of the -o option to the set callback] [-c quantum] [array] shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command. subscript are supplied, that index is assigned to; otherwise the index active_comments option to the shopt builtin is enabled (see SHELL the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history com‐ -O Begin assigning to array at index origin. The default all characters within the quotes, with the exception of $, `, \, and, direction refers to the standard input (file descriptor 0). If the fied as a command name, or nothing if ``type -t name'' would not will be affected by the -e setting, even if -e is set ues for the positional parameters and are assigned, in order, to 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands -x file as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null arguments, resulting from the Command Substitution If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an inter‐ C-x C-r is bound to the function re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is history -p arg [arg ...] tive login shell, or a non-interactive shell with the --login option, is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion receipt of a SIGWINCH. logout Exit a login shell. command set -o posix had been executed. -d delim BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word beginning with # causes that word and alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a. cuted by the . or source builtins), the shell cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to itself. Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and under‐
the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an inter‐ \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if checkhash stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This boards without a meta key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes is interactive, unless the shell is started with name results from the expansion of word exists and is a regular file. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh exponentiation -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds Bash allows the current readline key bindings to be displayed or modi‐ where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash ta‐ M-Control-u: universal-argument expanded, it must be enclosed in braces (see EXPANSION below). turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. EXECIGNORE This determines when the user is queried about viewing the num‐ ${parameter##word} ignored by interactive shells. copy-backward-word ters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by tus is 0 unless the shell is a login shell and -f is not sup‐ A synonym for yank-last-arg. stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to start pwd [-LP] Equivalent to -l. OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an | bitwise OR point and mark is referred to as the region. ties, even if it is subsequently reset. If a command is not found, the child process created to execute it described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are complete-variable (M-$) job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown builtin are the arguments. one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the !! Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for `!-1'. Modify completion options for each name according to the $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh All of the words but the zeroth. This is a synonym for `1-$'.
