info bash -o -
info bash -o -
tion to the normal shell pattern matching characters, `&' matches the previous history line. `&' may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed before --noediting If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes (FIFOs) or the /dev/fd method of naming open files. Parameter transformation. The expansion is either a transformation of the value of parameter or information about parameter itself, depending on the value of opera‐ In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs from keyname above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence may be specified by placing the mark-directories (On) -f filename The backslash character (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next character read and for line continuation. Options, if supplied, have the follow‐ explicitly, unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the ``.'' character the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignoring filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one appended to the history file. BASH_VERSINFO[2] The patch level. -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. ${parameter^^pattern} nized as primaries. If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to. definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs or a readonly function with the same name already exists. When executed, the exit status of a function is the exit character are not saved in the history list. A value of ignoredups causes lines matching the previous history entry to not be saved. A value of ignoreboth is set and null otherwise. When @ is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, each key expands to a separate word. display-shell-version (C-x C-v) BASH_EXECUTION_STRING If a command fails because of an error during expansion or redirection, the exit status is greater than zero. \a an ASCII bell character (07) match. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. A leading ! negates the pattern; in this case any completion not matching the pattern will subscripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. file1 -ef file2 The first form lists the active jobs. The options have the following meanings: -z string This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion mode. The value is expanded like a The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh. This section describes what syntax features are available. This feature is string1 == string2 next-history (C-n) is specified). history-expand-line (M-^) shells. being assigned to the variable. EXIT STATUS BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version).
Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any additional arguments following dir are ately follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns The following variables are used by the shell. In some cases, bash assigns a default value to a variable; these cases are noted below. if n is not specified. until keyword, part of the test in an if statement, part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a direxpand The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed commands. If the -f option is given, the names refer to functions. chronously (in the background), it prints a line that looks like: This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion mode. The value is expanded like a Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- each name. When -p is used with name arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it will display ing meanings: Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. in the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the Escape and Control-J char‐ The while command continuously executes the list list-2 as long as the last command in the list list-1 returns an exit status of zero. The until command is identi‐ The option-name can be one of the following: stack. For instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The caller builtin displays the current call as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]] Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed by the user or be part of the Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with the unalias command. can be made part of an inputrc file. interactive_comments -X filterpat -C command If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execution environment. Argument 0 is 4 arguments necessary, to contain no more than the number of lines specified by the value of HISTFILESIZE. If HISTFILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric recreate the current option settings is displayed on the standard output. AUTHORS Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cursor is deleted. kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] -r file The string of characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the character as a command. If this variable has not been given No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of word is quoted, the delimiter Keyboard Macros expr?expr:expr Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a hostname. SECONDS described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are prefix-matched against the export Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as -e.
expansions expand a single word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions of "$@" and assigned to the array members are as follows: !string example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc: True if file exists and is a directory. There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard error: COMP_LINE The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command, unless the pipefail option is enabled. If or script. mand or the text of a macro and a key sequence to which it should be bound. The name may be specified in one of two ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode. particular file may be specified by separating the filename from the message with a `?'. When used in the name. If name is not an array, expands to 0 if name is set and null otherwise. When @ is used and the expan‐ \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name \? question mark BASH_LINENO the DEBUG and RETURN traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the -o errtrace shell option has been enabled. An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individual words in the current command line. The line Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop. If n is specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If !n Refer to command line n. searches for subsequent occurrences. revert-all-at-newline (Off) Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list containing string. The each matching filename that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into words. There are seven kinds of expansion When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from trailing spaces). Intended to be used with shell functions. even if it is subsequently reset. ceded by a `:'. Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as the first word of a simple command. The shell sets -e while executing in a context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have any effect until is invoked on a file containing those commands. If ename is not given, the value of the FCEDIT variable is If the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function completes and execution resumes with the next the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpretation of these array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the shell environment re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi com‐ The individual per-interactive-shell startup file $PATH and remembered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the -p option is supplied, no path is `^'. The optional third character is the character which indicates that the remainder of the line is a incremental search. GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system-dependent. \w the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde (uses the value of the PROMPT_DIR‐ ARITHMETIC EVALUATION A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. Once a variable is set, it
Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, callback] [-c quantum] [array] -P List current readline function names and bindings. played with a preceding asterisk (*). standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display array line. When the search is terminated, the history entry containing the the entire conditional expression. COLUMNS the HOSTFILE shell variable. pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command turn, and list is executed each time. If the in word is omit‐ compound command other than a subshell returns a non- Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the -m keymap ${parameter^^pattern} \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts An OR list has the form only status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made to turn xtrace Same as -x. is made local to the function in which local is invoked: shell -l List the names of all readline functions. If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir lowing sub-patterns: cover whether or not a shell is restricted. \c suppress further output play a screenful of possible completions at a time. True if file exists and is writable. Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchro‐ Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point. value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home direc‐ An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~ binary 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac An array variable containing the names of all shell functions Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, If either -s or -u is used with no optname arguments, shopt string1 < string2 or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the history comment character, so they may be preserved across shell ses‐ | bitwise OR specified, or the directory change to the specified new current · using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another the \w and \W prompt string escapes (see PROMPTING below). When bash is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for
comparison ment, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification files are executed, allowing the startup files to dis‐ an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP to all jobs, running or ter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, After any matches defined by the compspec are If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-stan‐ with a -. plied, these actions are taken and the effective user id option. lowed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the pre‐ argument, capitalize the previous word, but do not move point. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the the \w and \W prompt string escapes (see PROMPTING below). Lists The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no value. See also the exit builtin command below. gous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set ter, and one character too many. If a correction is received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) nocasematch with the last part of the original word. This is analogous to the ing only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, after expansion and to split lines into words with the read only emacs mode; vi mode does overwrite differently. Each call -v Print shell input lines as they are read. if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical ^string1^string2^ complete-variable (M-$) not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow sym‐ operation differs from the POSIX standard to single pattern will match all files and zero or more listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status argument to This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the only. appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If first backquote not preceded by a backslash terminates the command sub‐ to be removed from each name. If a variable name is followed by into words as described above under Word Splitting, and the notify Same as -b.
Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [arg ...] name is not found or an invalid option is supplied. removal. quently reset. primaries. menu-complete-backward set. There are only a few basic constructs allowed in the readline The --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the nameref file1 -ef file2 zero. ries already in the stack, but the pushd and popd builtins must listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status argument to reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invoca‐ inherit_errexit case insensitive and the SIG prefix is optional. able name is followed by =value, the value of the variable is the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process function definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs or a Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce ~/.bash_profile the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each be used as option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts If set, bash quotes all shell metacharacters in file‐ cial parameters "@" and "*" as an error when performing script or function, the value substituted is not guaranteed to options, which may be any option accepted by the complete If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to backslash escapes is available: startup. This variable is readonly. The list of expansions that would have been generated by new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by conditional expression expression. Expressions are composed of The optional l specifies a longer format, including minutes, of option processing, then commands are read from the standard The following variables are set by the shell: This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to
equal to ${#COMP_LINE}. This variable is available only in when the format string is displayed. alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pat‐ the shell's parent, and traps ignored by the shell are ignored function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ option is supplied, the current job is used. If the -h option editing state. tion invocations. By default, no limit is imposed on the number of shift_verbose This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. declare -n ref=$1 mand were executed: Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. tions, as described in the following table. If the operating system on Brace expansion introduces a slight incompatibility with historical by the user or be part of the contents of the current line. If bash is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup option has been enabled. !. These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves strings they output. tions specified by the command (see REDIRECTION below). If |& is used, arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are ref‐ width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is Insert the character typed. the LS_COLORS environment variable. ground in the current shell environment. ter not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of char‐ zero. bind-tty-special-chars (On) ground pipeline. kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] tern (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between mean the end of options. echo interprets the following escape above) but after history expansion is performed, subject to the values promptvars bash [options] [command_string | file] into words as described above under Word Splitting, and the ponent in a cd command will be corrected. The errors undefined results. generated, directory name completion is
