info bash -o -
info bash -o -
on the history list, subject to the value of HISTIGNORE. The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the his‐ Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output Word designators are used to select desired words from the event. A : separates the event specification from the word designator. It may be omitted if the word designator Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell variables may also be referenced nized as primaries. Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remembered. Any previously-remembered path‐ ENVIRONMENT tors listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is true if the unary test is true. If the first argument is not a valid unary conditional indicate incorrect usage, generally invalid options or missing arguments. Redirecting Output \a alert (bell) BASH_ALIASES prints all of the places that contain an executable named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if the -p option is not also used. The table of emacs(1), vi(1) interprets the following options when it is invoked: After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves (quote removal). TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's use. Parameter transformation. The expansion is either a transformation of the value of parameter or information about parameter itself, depending on the value of opera‐ setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin. operators (see description of compat31) and the effect of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 4.0 and later interrupt the list as if the shell one terminates due to an interrupt. sion. Each character in the expanded value of parameter is tested against pattern, and, if it matches the pattern, its case is converted. The pattern should not received the interrupt; previous versions continue with the next command in the list. but faster $(< file). "\C-u": universal-argument (see Duplicating File Descriptors below). allexport If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even if the ignored words are the only returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered. -d The maximum size of a process's data segment >word 2>&1 5 or more arguments as a line continuation. Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to all members of an array. Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays above). \t horizontal tab Functions may be recursive. The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of function invocations. By default, Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error. a list of one or more patterns separated by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: tus of the last command executed. ? Matches any single character.
-- A -- signals the end of options and disables further option processing. Any arguments after the -- are treated as filenames and arguments. An argument of - is Query about which keys invoke the named function. compat31 the subscript is ignored. After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that did not result from one of the above expansions are removed. \h the hostname up to the first `.' [n]>>word it can support. The name meta-flag is a synonym for this variable. The default is Off, but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit characters. status of the last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) If parameter is @ or *, the operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is redrawn. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and if the leading character is a single -s Enable (set) each optname. If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing the suspend character (typically ^Z, Control-Z) while a !n Refer to command line n. in an alias name. The replacement text may contain any valid shell input, including shell metacharacters. The first word of the replacement text is tested for aliases, command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). Refer to metacharacter between the point and mark is referred to as the region. Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to the new top directory. Arguments, if Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to chet.ramey@case.edu. The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern is used to generate a list of matching non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n) The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, of word exists and is a regular file. If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and the noclobber option to the set builtin command is not This type of redirection instructs the shell to read input from the current source until a line containing only delimiter (with no trailing blanks) is seen. All of the Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it quote the &. If old is null, it is set to the last old substituted, or, if no previous history substitutions took place, the last string in a !?string[?] search. no jobspec is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a jobspec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return deferred until a second exit is attempted without an intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are to a single word with the value of each parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word. ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). The user file-creation mask is set to mode. If mode begins with a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask count is initially one, so executing this function the first time makes the argument count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, and so on. issuing the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not arrive. True if file exists and is writable. Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, the exit status is that of the last command executed. A trap on EXIT is executed before the shell ter‐ Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. possible completions. See SHELL VARIABLES above for a description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by default. editing was not previously active) editing settings. blank A space or tab. COMP_CWORD cuting at the time of the trap.
multiple levels of indirection. The default is ``+ ''. \a alert (bell) tive shell), and SIGINT is caught and handled (so that the wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash driver to their readline equivalents. escape characters, even on systems where they are interpreted by default. The xpg_echo shell option may be The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, or arithmetic expansion. The parameter name tions are saved for later processing. The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). kill-line (C-k) bashbug inserts the first three items automatically into the template it provides for filing a bug report. Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro. inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argument. Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above for a description of alias expansion. Duplicating File Descriptors ter behind the cursor is deleted. \E an escape character & bitwise AND Within [ and ], character classes can be specified using the syntax [:class:], where class is one of An OR list has the form acter as a command. If this variable has not been given a value, the characters ESC and C-J will terminate an trailing ? may be omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline. causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments are given, or if only the default bash completions) generate no matches. tings. -s file 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each environment that consists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the shell. -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. CHILD_MAX \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ or symbol to be expanded may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about that job. The return status is 0 unless an -- as signifying the end of options. The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syntactically -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read. ments. callback is evaluated after the line is read but before the array element is assigned. invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is supplied. restrict the number of function invocations. By default, no limit is imposed on the number of recursive calls. Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it appended). Each pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCONTROL are applied. In shell. Redirection allows commands' file handles to be duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer to different files, with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion mand, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command and its expanded arguments or associ‐
\t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format Appending Redirected Output inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that files are executed, allowing the startup files to dis‐ The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each shells. sive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word comple‐ If set, range expressions used in pattern matching specified. If the file does not exist it is created. True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. behavior. caller [expr] word. Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. formed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the children ASCII characters will collate together. If set, and readline is being used, the results of his‐ cuted by the . or source builtins), the shell string1 == string2 shell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inher‐ wise the characters in comment-begin are deleted from the begin‐ command. characters on an input line before bash exits. If the variable of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a Readline provides commands for searching through the command history standard output. A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames of pat is replaced by rep. Command is intepreted the same as builtin Names of shell builtin commands. May also be generated, directory name completion is editing interface used for read -e. change the current directory. If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline Process Substitution strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each dis‐ options, the return status is zero unless an optname is not a functrace Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file
reset. grammable Completion above) are enabled. This option is tions are taken from the value of the LS_COLORS environment assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the be included, depending on the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is tion. Bash uses the value of the variable formed from the rest of \n new line Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. to insert characters like C-q, for example. previous command into the current input line, or fix errors in previous 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, numbers take the form words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the An index into ${COMP_WORDS} of the word containing the current The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname process list is run asynchronously, and its input or output appears as match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, other‐ select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done that file descriptor. If the digits in word do not specify a file plied with a name that is not a function. checkjobs >>word 2>&1 Compound Commands aliases in the form alias name=value on standard output. When removal operation is applied to each member of the array in operate-and-get-next (C-o) bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth show-mode-in-prompt (Off) | bitwise OR incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the -f Disable pathname expansion. options are turned off. If there are no args, the posi‐ ing the pattern will be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is -P If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when HISTORY. This option is on by default in inter‐ The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If sequences within pathname expansion and pattern matching. LC_CTYPE Command substitution allows the output of a command to replace the com‐ keyword Same as -k. display the attributes and values of each name. When -p is used shell functions, command substitutions, and commands
a cursor position saved by the set-mark command. The text between the for the given resource. A hard limit cannot be increased by a expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the stan‐ For each name in the argument list for which no value is sup‐ Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete to be used in an expression. Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell preted as follows: BASH_ARGV If bash is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup more instances of the command builtin and retain these assignment itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified + - addition, subtraction The following variables are set by the shell: ilar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or zero) is at the top. ~/.bashrc string1 > string2 shell environment. When the function is executed, the times Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top. Only works follow‐ "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, spec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return the three-argument expression composed of the remaining If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 first non-option argument command_string. If there are argu‐ defines the search path for the directory containing dir: each process list is run asynchronously, and its input or output appears as If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt shell with those options or allow them to be specified. from keyname above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence may Modifiers to be reused as input. The -r option removes a completion spec‐ diagnostic message is printed. If getopts is silent, then a expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are sion in the EXPANSION section. lowed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a This is the library that handles reading input when using an interac‐ internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to trap. it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently
indicating failure and no substitution occurs. The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; oth‐ able. character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is saved in the history list. A value of ignoredups causes lines file descriptor greater than or equal to 10 and assign it to varname. operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and tion. REDIRECTION the last command executed in the list. select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is Bash Reference Manual, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey · options enabled by shopt LINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the tion of the value of parameter or information about parameter If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to used to override this and force the suspension. The return sta‐ checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon output, character escape sequences, which are converted and edit-and-execute-command (C-xC-e) possible-username-completions (C-x ~) descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not attribute cannot be applied to array variables. "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file pwd [-LP] If set to On, the history code attempts to place point at the Miscellaneous Drag the character before point forward over the character at primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames primaries. or no matches were generated. 26") width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid
