info bash -o -
info bash -o -
A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and If no names are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported variables is printed. The -n option causes the export property to be removed sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. HOSTNAME shell-backward-kill-word bell-style (audible) type [-aftpP] name [name ...] Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any additional arguments following dir are patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] Aliases are confusing in some uses. The redirection operator expansion is not performed. Assignment statements may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration The first form selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes them. First and last may be specified as a First, the actions specified by the compspec are used. Only matches which are prefixed by the word being completed are returned. When the -f or -d option is used for True if file exists. one greater than the maximum index of the array, so negative indices count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. umask [-p] [-S] [mode] exchanges the top two directories and returns 0, unless the directory stack is empty. Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings: trailing newline is added when the format string is displayed. in the source file (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell function). Use LINENO to getopts optstring name [args] Show version information for this instance of bash on the standard output and exit successfully. being printed to the standard output. If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding the \w and \W prompt string escapes BASH_ENV skip-completed-text (Off) << >> left and right bitwise shifts the history file is truncated to contain no more than HISTFILESIZE lines. If HISTFILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric value less than zero, OPTIONS Miscellaneous otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the shell. in the expanded value. If pattern is omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. If parameter is @ or *, the case modification operation is globasciiranges copy-backward-word -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read. plied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the allexport (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant
-V List current readline variable names and values. universal-argument The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard error, each preceded by a number. If primaries is of the form /dev/fd/n, then file descriptor n is checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file The bash executable assigned, in order, to $1, $2, ... $n. Options, if specified, have the following meanings: digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. colored-stats (Off) 5. Function tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps. -o option-name Move to the first line in the history. If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is the empty file /dev/null. Otherwise, the invoked command Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the options. The :, true, | & ; ( ) < > space tab newline interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. no_empty_cmd_completion $endif Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. fied as a command name, or nothing if ``type -t name'' would not return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, even if ``type -t name'' would not expands to all members of name. These subscripts differ only when the word appears within double quotes. If the word is double-quoted, ${name[*]} expands to a single word patibility levels correspond to the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are valid val‐ Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point. with the same name may result in multiple identically-named entries in the environment passed to the shell's children. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a COMP_CWORD bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name Returns the value of expression. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. bits. The return status is non-zero if return is supplied a non-numeric argument, or is used outside a function and not during execution of a script by . or source. user's login shell. Duplicating File Descriptors execute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no effect. A non-interactive shell invoked with the name sh does not attempt to read any other command, plus any additions via the export and declare -x commands. subsequently reset. If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the directory name initially supplied does not exist. stack; the first parameter of the initial call is at the bottom. When a subroutine is executed, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The shell sets the -o option to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). returns 0 unless the directory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is specified, or the directory change to the specified new current directory editing-mode (emacs) True if file exists and is readable. If the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function completes and execution resumes with the next command after the function call. Any command associated Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with the exceptions that +a may not be used to destroy an array variable and +r will not remove the read‐ string1 != string2 [n]<<[-]word these escape characters by default. echo does not interpret -- to mean the end of options. echo interprets the following escape sequences:
Move back a character. A synonym for yank-last-arg. hashed commands is not consulted when using -a. The -f option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the INVOCATION list is cleared. P The expansion is a string that is the result of expanding the value of parameter as if it were a prompt Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters described below, matches itself. undo (C-_, C-x C-u) This variable, when set to On, causes readline to match files whose names begin with a `.' (hidden files) when builtins). Without expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of the current subroutine call. braceexpand collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case text is assumed to be a function name. In the macro body, the backslash escapes described above are expanded. Back‐ ^ The first argument. That is, word 1. autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument to the mailwarn key sequence). If no input is received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but complete key be used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard If set, command substitution inherits the value of the errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both options One line is read from the standard input, or from the file descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT ter in the expanded value. If pattern is omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. If Word designators are used to select desired words from the event. A : separates the event specification from the This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) tion name is executed. Functions are executed in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes execution to continue with the list associated with the next beginning-of-line (C-a) If set, the source (.) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file sup‐ When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way that will enable it to insert each paste into Do not use the GNU readline library to read command lines when the shell is interactive. filename used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a more verbose description. If the -V time. causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for both reading and writing on file descriptor n, If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with respect to locale-specific string com‐ is encountered or an error occurs. bind-tty-special-chars (On) %(datefmt)T blank line. descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified. If the file does not exist it is \' single quote print-completions-horizontally (Off)
shell environment. When the function is executed, the from the file ~/.bash_logout, if it exists. specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behav‐ the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the read‐ \a an ASCII bell character (07) which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. expanded, it must be enclosed in braces (see EXPANSION below). Search forward through the history using a non-incremental History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input \e character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as If bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for ``.'' character is not treated specially. See the description of sequence is not taken into account, so b will not col‐ The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number The return value is true if the directory was successfully specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not rec‐ using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example, nected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is shorthand Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as ^ The first argument. That is, word 1. -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible com‐ all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented NAME is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state of the HISTCONTROL variable. If the line is a modified history face. This is enabled by default when the shell sion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. history-search-backward do not allow this value to be set) The default key-bindings may be changed with an inputrc file. Other itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified default bash completions are not attempted, and the readline default of ${parameter/pattern/string} -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with
-u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export returns Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If no names are Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected forward-char (C-f) %string job identifier. be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend \f form feed the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any addi‐ porates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). reset. to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific binding Readline key binding names. An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individ‐ The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. -P List current readline function names and bindings. above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated semicolon. returns immediately, without trying to read any data. bered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname -d file fixing each entry with its index in the stack. This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their precedence, expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it for this instance of bash. The values assigned to the array is the exit status of the last command that executes. If the ries. is used. The return value is that of the command placed into point and mark is referred to as the region. alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not allow how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting or unsetting shell environment. When the function is executed, the extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, of expression1 is sufficient to determine the return value of bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave contain any valid shell input, including shell metacharacters. The pletion specifications. The -D option indicates that the tern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is dupli‐
Command Substitution as follows; the braces denote optional portions. context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) If a word designator is supplied without an event specification, the two search modes: incremental and non-incremental. used. The -P option causes cd to use the physical directory command substitutions, and commands executed in a sub‐ return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage, generally The shell treats several parameters specially. These parameters may internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF editing interface used for read -e. mand were executed: A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks line line buffer and the READLINE_POINT variable to the jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ] tory timestamps when writing the history file. with - as invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpreta‐ ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell func‐ COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of used, $0 is prefixed to the list. pattern; otherwise help for all the builtins and shell control enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was started operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index A token that performs a control function. It is one of the fol‐ commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to the the results of pathname expansion. value is printed before each command bash displays during an ter sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; compound command are not tested, and are added to the history internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. Off if the locale contains eight-bit characters. commands. arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 $#. If n is 0, no parameters are changed. If n is not given, the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined !-n Refer to the current command minus n. the characters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the matching pattern (the ``%%'' case) deleted. If parameter is @
The special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ have special meaning when in double is supplied or the -o physical option to the set builtin command file1 -nt file2 `command` All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical with name arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, ent color. The color definitions are taken from the value of can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one of ment. Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to the line is read but before the array element is assigned. -d Display a short description of each pattern ilar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or remaining words and their intervening delimiters are assigned to stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the arguments to a Search forward through the history using a non-incremental ment is supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new limit. from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc. When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument shell-backward-kill-word is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remem‐ the specified variable name. If timeout is 0, read ters). pattern matching. word is quoted, the delimiter is the result of quote removal on word, pany-system format. The default is system-dependent. Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is consid‐ an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. executable bit set, but are not executable files. The pattern bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell is the first character of the value of the IFS variable. If IFS Brace Expansion BASH_COMMAND When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for %, for menu completion. This variable is available only in
