info bash -o -
info bash -o -
pletion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. The bash executable If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding the \w and \W prompt string escapes attempted, and the readline default of filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, the bash HISTSIZE -N file be a decimal number with a fractional portion following the decimal point. This option is only effective if read is reading input from a terminal, pipe, or interrupt any other output. If the -b option to the set builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. effect, using escape as the meta prefix). The default is On, but readline will set it to Off if the locale contains eight-bit characters. The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. substitution to be skipped for the remaining words on the line. It does not necessarily cause the shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. TION below). List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. be followed by a newline in place of a semicolon. { helptopic RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. 124, and changes the compspec associated with the command on which completion is being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is executed), program‐ transpose-words (M-t) BASH_VERSINFO[2] The patch level. each is set. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options have the following meanings: FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. must match the complete line (no implicit `*' is appended). Each pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCONTROL are applied. In addi‐ ignored). terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), or one started with the -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how to insert characters like C-q, for example. ENV, expands its value if it is defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Since a shell invoked as sh does not attempt to read and The redirection operator nized. Since they do not cause a word break, they must be separated from list by whitespace or another shell metacharacter. beginning of the line, Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. noclobber Do not use the GNU readline library to read command lines when the shell is interactive. in the source file (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}) where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell function). Use LINENO to -R varname Search forward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. This is a non-incremental search. An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at the top of the -S suffix bind [-m keymap] -f filename parameter starting at the character specified by offset and extending to the end of the value. length and offset are arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUA‐ · setting or unsetting the values of SHELL, PATH, ENV, or BASH_ENV READLINE above). This is enabled by default. yank-last-arg (M-., M-_)
directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command expand to nothing (i.e., they are removed). · the current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or inherited by the shell at invocation \] end a sequence of non-printing characters id++ id-- pressed. If the -e option is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpretation of these If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing the suspend character (typically ^Z, Control-Z) while a play the completion options for each name or the current completion. The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above. The -D to give variables attributes: This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when emacs editing mode is active. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to the new top directory. Arguments, if The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell Variables). The shell uses following history entry. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset issue when functions are executed. Aliases are expanded when a function definition is read, not when the function is executed, because a function definition is itself a select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done \H the hostname BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). current command number). If last is not specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that ``fc -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first oth‐ Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is not present) is written to the standard Matches one of the given patterns nocasematch SHELL GRAMMAR set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...] nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has --noediting --dump-po-strings · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the . builtin command Names of disabled shell builtins. $include pathname to which each name corresponds is printed. If multiple name arguments are supplied with -t, the name is printed before the hashed full pathname. The -l · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment MANDS). show-all-if-unmodified (Off) an output error occurs. In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection operator is <, the redirection refers to the standard definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs or a readonly function with the same name already exists. When executed, the exit status of a function is the exit sidered binary operators when there are three arguments. If the first argument is !, the value is the negation of the two-argument test using the second and 4 arguments True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] blank A space or tab. SHELLOPTS
complete-variable (M-$) A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are either integers or single characters, and directories and subdirectories. kill-word (M-d) expansion is the resultant list. to its initial state. Equivalent to -l. In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the interactive_comments option to the shopt builtin is HOSTFILE [n]<word Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, the expansion of word (or a message to that they may be removed during word splitting. The command substitution $(cat file) can be replaced by the equivalent the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: split on the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read successful directory change, cd will return an unsuccessful status. On systems that support it, the -@ option prevent parameter expansion. to be recognized; if a character is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have an argument, which moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not speci‐ When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a command name. Command completion attempts to vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. This also affects the editing interface used \d delete command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions. the pipeline to terminate before returning a value. is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. ments. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function not executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack. assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is sub‐ READLINE compat41 the hash builtin. Elements added to this array appear in the hash table; however, unsetting array elements inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argument. single-character options to be recognized. ARITHMETIC EVALUATION plusdirs search is performed, and filename is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option causes the shell When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for which a completion specification (a compspec) has sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[. If this sequence is bound to "\[", _completion_loader() output by the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side of the = is tested against both the Read in the contents of the inputrc file, and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found there. patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: within the function. The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default.
backward-char (C-b) specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). $#. If n is 0, no parameters are changed. If n is not given, to be recognized. Since they do not cause a word break, they The args are read and concatenated together into a single com‐ shell-backward-word COMP_POINT responding numbers. Each sigspec is either a signal name executed. If the -p option is given, the search for command is formed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks the foreground. Background processes are those whose process group ID it as a hostname. lines should be saved on the history list. Each pattern is GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. word A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A zero. Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell quent occurrences. of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting is used. In A positional parameter is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of control operator. The first word specifies the command to be executed, The following variables are set by the shell: file File names. May also be specified as -f. unix-line-discard (C-u) The list of expansions that would have been generated by bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. coprocess is executed asynchronously in a subshell, as if the command attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of arrayvar those used by backward-word. expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also for execution. This is enabled by default. Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in Readline Variables The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HIS‐ Word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the state. function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly key the terminal claims to support when it is called. On many
use during substitution. The second is to select portions of that line ( expression ) cute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing -r Display only running jobs. are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but form ning part of the original word, and the expansion of the last the && and || control operators, respectively. AND and OR lists are True if file exists and is a block special file. interrupt the list as if the shell received the inter‐ it the full pathname of the current user's login shell. be specified as -j. mand substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see EXPAN‐ must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a builtin (in which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN -w file Pattern Matching ters on the line, and point is at the beginning of the line, Same as -B. and local below) to create a nameref, or a reference to another vari‐ \n newline optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is replaced tus of the command builtin is the exit status of command. prompt not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, described below under Pattern Matching, as if the extglob shell option command, select command, or arithmetic for command, dis‐ HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. ${parameter:+word} -N nchars means ESC-Control-x, or press the Escape key then hold the Control key mark-directories (On) words. Various modifiers are available to manipulate the selected essary. without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Any part of the generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are said to be in command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially
LC_CTYPE If set, the history list is appended to the file named will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option zero. below), while the command number is the position in the sequence of file cannot be executed. If command is not specified, any redi‐ { If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the expression is Similarly, the redirection operator negative argument switches the direction through the history expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt (see the description of The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When resetting the currently-set variables. Read-only variables can‐ exit status indicates failure. When a command terminates on a fatal appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs -x The maximum number of file locks is interpreted as an offset in characters from the end of the If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is per‐ to completed names which are symbolic links to directories, subject to There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is for this instance of bash. The values assigned to the array use during substitution. The second is to select portions of that line ble exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ will display the attributes and values of all variables having command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is con‐ If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to to readline() starts in insert mode. In overwrite mode, charac‐ betic characters in parameter. The pattern is expanded to pro‐ export Names of exported shell variables. May also be with a -. FUNCNAME \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion for instance. if the compspec generates no matches. nnn (zero to three octal digits) reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is sup‐ hostname it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently
remember the full pathnames of executable files (see hash under SHELL True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found. execution to continue with the list associated with the next set If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, com‐ completion even if the ignored words are the only possi‐ --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit success‐ searched if no file is found in PATH. If the sourcepath option MACHTYPE late between A and B, and upper-case and lower-case the coprocess to terminate. Redirections using file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and able. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive tory. ${parameter/pattern/string} copy-forward-word be quoted to prevent history expansion. tus of the last command executed, or zero if no condition tested given. When more than one resource is specified, the limit name and source file corresponding to that position in the current hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be stopped OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file Insert a tab character. -s Display only stopped jobs. command. \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once nocaseglob (the inputrc file). The name of this file is taken from the value of directory names separated by spaces. Directories are added to SECONDS, the value returned upon subsequent references is the unalias [-a] [name ...] complete_fullquote single simple command), a list, or a compound command shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception that easy re-editing of multi-line commands. suffix is appended to each possible completion after all The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option without job control. pat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C command] and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status
