info bash -o -
info bash -o -
id++ id-- command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. INVOCATION Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in Perform tilde expansion on the current word. Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and return the exit status of the last command executed from filename. If filename does not in the expanded value. If pattern is omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. If parameter is @ or *, the case modification operation is hashall Same as -h. -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) PROMPTING above. This option is enabled by default. The while command continuously executes the list list-2 as long as the last command in the list list-1 returns an exit status of zero. The until command is identi‐ Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred to using a filename. It takes the form of <(list) or >(list). The process list is run asyn‐ The shell function function is executed in the current shell environment. When the function is executed, the first argument ($1) is the name of the command form is used, writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the output of list. ing the bell. A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is while executing in a context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have any effect until the compound command or the command containing the function shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. return [n] into words in the same fashion as when reading input, so that several metacharacter-separated words surrounded by quotes are considered one word. History expansions are If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the directory name initially supplied does not exist. value of parameter, then the result of the expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest matching pattern (the ``%'' case) or the longest matching Associative arrays are created using declare -A name. The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented temporarily by prefixing it with parameter assignments, as described above in PARAMETERS. These assign‐ Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the shell (see Brace Expansion above). \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ have no values, are removed. If a parameter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty upcase-word (M-u) the format is passed to strftime(3) and the result is inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results in a locale-specific time representation. The fails. SIGNALS Positional Parameters -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum. JOB CONTROL hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] ${parameter%%word} filenames for possible completions. shell-expand-line (M-C-e) If a command is terminated by the control operator &, the shell executes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not wait for the command to finish,
to be completed. This means that dollar signs in variable names that expand to directories will not be quoted; however, any dollar signs appearing in file‐ copy-region-as-kill Toggle the values of settings controlling optional shell behavior. The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the -o option is used, those available with otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the shell. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh All of the words but the zeroth. This is a synonym for `1-$'. It is not an error to use 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh if there is just one word in the event; the empty string is returned in expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the characters \, $, and `. formed as the result of tests. There are four parser directives used. and non-incremental. In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. string1 = string2 The first form lists the active jobs. The options have the following meanings: If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi insertion (+). BASH_REMATCH. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index n is backward-delete-char (Rubout) The bash executable -s Display only stopped jobs. -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). expansion. IGNOREEOF option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. When bash starts a job asyn‐ \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits) There is no mechanism for using arguments in the replacement text. If arguments are needed, a shell function should be used (see FUNCTIONS below). \" double quote pushd [-n] [dir] backward-kill-word (M-Rubout) The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The history builtin may be used to dis‐ -v Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be re-read. chet.ramey@case.edu By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The default bash completions are not Move back a character. dirs [-clpv] [+n] [-n] Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro. but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and bash does not try to If bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the command completes. When bash is the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions of sh, mostly because of the POSIX specification. a list of one or more patterns separated by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: -e The maximum scheduling priority ("nice") dump-functions tions may be changed while the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file to [n]<<<word The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell Variables). The shell uses -u When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case characters are converted to upper-case. The lower-case attribute is disabled. FUNCNEST
${parameter:-word} LC_COLLATE If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to directories have a slash appended (subject to the When the -o history option to the set builtin is enabled, the shell provides access to the command history, the list where necessary to preserve syntactic correctness. The lithist shell option causes the shell to save the command active. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard set of meta- and control prefixes and back‐ performing parameter expansion. If expansion is attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the the rest of the command by one or more newlines, and may be followed by a newline in place of a semicolon. returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma option, split into words as described above under Word Splitting, and the first word is assigned to the first physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances desired, start bash with the +B option or disable brace expansion with the +B option to the set command (see SHELL should be read to obtain the output of list. Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) plied as an argument. This option is enabled by default. exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argu‐ \f form feed character-search-backward (M-C-]) The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting braceexpand The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syntactically -p file input, including shell metacharacters. The first word of the replacement text is tested for aliases, but a word that -v The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell and, on some systems, to its children parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution and quote restricted shell is used to set up an environment more controlled than the standard shell. It behaves identically to Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes his‐ kill-region is unset, and a diagnostic message is printed. If getopts is silent, then a colon (:) is placed in name and True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name reference. This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin. Individual array elements may be assigned to using the If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of the three-argument expression composed of the If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the first argu‐ bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command an invalid option is encountered, one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with tion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). or @, the value substituted is the number of elements in the array. If parameter is an indexed array name default, then sequences of <space>, <tab>, and <newline> at the beginning and end of the results of the previous An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of FUNC‐ %% A literal %. transpose-words (M-t) plied with no option-name, a series of set commands to recreate the current option settings is dis‐
delete-horizontal-space (M-\) the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare Remove each name from the list of defined aliases. If -a is command Assign Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the upcase-word (M-u) True if file exists and is a block special file. ~/.bash_logout against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them from expan‐ sages. mal number with a fractional portion following the deci‐ Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. support it (see JOB CONTROL above). All processes run The -H and -S options specify that the hard or soft limit is set Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes List the possible completions of the text before point, treating COMP_WORDS mands. the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history com‐ fully. becomes longer than the screen width rather than wrapping to a search. -R varname directory fails. options under the description of the -o option to the set !# The entire command line typed so far. reset. -S suffix plied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indica‐ and its expanded arguments or associated word list. tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are said to be in when parameter is a positional parameter with more than one There are a number of ways to refer to a job in the shell. The charac‐ put is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an Word Designators Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's options to be recognized. The exit status is 0 if input is available on the speci‐ $(command)
simulates a call to return. nous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate option causes a single word indicating the command or filename # Quote the current or previous word matches. errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). To turn off line editing is given, each jobspec is not removed from the table, but is declare -x commands allow parameters and functions to be added to and process. In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parame‐ ning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what more instances of the command builtin and retain these assignment inserting a single match into the line. It's only active when preted as relative to one greater than the maximum index of the array, words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when read‐ variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would /etc/bash.bashrc and the personal initialization file ~/.bashrc eval [arg ...] spawned to execute the script. formed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0. Commands nocasematch words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the message ``The mail in mailfile has been read'' is dis‐ hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) sequence of IFS whitespace characters is also treated as a delimiter. destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to with assignment statements. The positional parameters are temporarily Control keys are denoted by C-key, e.g., C-n means Control-N. Simi‐ history file. string1 != string2 getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more shell's parent in the environment being duplicated to n. p Print the new command but do not execute it. any additions via the export and declare -x commands. This variable determines the collation order used when sorting file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS white‐ completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the fails. With the second form, pushd returns 0 unless the direc‐ The list of expansions that would have been generated by set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument COMP_LINE
ment and replacing the command substitution with the standard output of (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). current shell execution environment. The following redirection opera‐ to be reused as input. The -r option removes a completion spec‐ startup files are read. pletes, the shell prints a line containing its exit sta‐ the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the program‐ set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an exit sta‐ set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument ARITHMETIC EVALUATION shell exits shell-backward-word IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly -F function enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] LINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the last command used to determine the status is the last command bell-style (audible) Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The Delete the history entry at position offset. alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a. An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a last command executed in list. the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default. option requires an argument, getopts places that argument into calling shell as modified by redirections. (starting with 1) within a script or function. When not in a If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear Insert all completions of the text before point that would have recreate parameter with its attributes and value. ANSI C standard. Backslash escape sequences, if present, are decoded tion and its children. If name is -, the set of shell options == != equality and inequality The default key-bindings may be changed with an inputrc file. Other builtin. effect after the command completes. The return status is the call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e) Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. override the normal precedence of operators. is enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename is interactive, unless the shell is started with started with the effective user (group) id not equal to a name that is not a function.
a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated shell environment. Otherwise, the variables are added to the environ‐ treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their read‐ elements may be assigned to using the name[subscript]=value syntax transpose-chars (C-t) of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting is used. In command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). variables is printed. The -n option causes the export property Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array vari‐ erated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, graphically using ASCII ordering. By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned values. ${!name[@]} and ${!name[*]} expand to the indices assigned in parts. The first is to determine which line from the history list to Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or point, moving point forward as well. If point is at the end of shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argu‐ return its exit status. This is useful when defining a function (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next char‐ Note that the order of redirections is significant. For example, the overwrite-mode If set, command substitution inherits the value of the -r Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned characters separated by a hyphen denotes a range expres‐ indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi are the arguments. dard. [[ conditional commands, when performing pattern substi‐ completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. moves n positions forward in the list of matches; a negative a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values rep‐ the corresponding shell function names in the FUNCNAME array end of input to the shell. the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cur‐ checkjobs shell option has been enabled using the shopt builtin, run‐ menu-complete for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the string1 != string2 Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently receives a SIGHUP. If no jobspec is supplied, the -a option ing arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any. shell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inher‐ literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of
