info bash -o -
info bash -o -
-t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error. Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches a trailing portion of the expanded \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits) readable. It will not do this if invoked as sh. The --norc option may be used to inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force another file to be command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell. If set to none, readline never rings the bell. If set to visible, readline uses a visible bell behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full pathnames in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIGNORE. Use this variable to ignore shared library files Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and bash does not try to If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following description, a pattern-list is Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. symbolic links to directories, subject to the value of the mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the setting of the mark-symlinked-directories readline vari‐ Only brace expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can change the number of words of the expansion; other expansions expand a single word to a single word. The Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). environment inherited by any executed command consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below). the SIG prefix is optional. mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes (FIFOs) or the /dev/fd method of naming open files. line, and do not use alias in compound commands. parameter starting at the character specified by offset and extending to the end of the value. length and offset are arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUA‐ may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. -T The maximum number of threads history -c jobs -x command [ args ... ] status. The shell does not exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following a while or until keyword, part of the test fol‐ expansion. Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off (without regard to case). Unrecognized variable names are ignored. When a variable value is read, QUOTING option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being completed on the current command line. No filtering of ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode. If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range. If the -e option is restricted_shell File descriptor 2 is duplicated. -l List the names of all readline functions. plied and an error occurred or command cannot be found, the exit status is 127. Otherwise, the exit status of the command builtin is the exit status of command. ! expression This determines when the user is queried about viewing the number of possible completions generated by the possible-completions command. It may be set to any inte‐ %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e. HOSTNAME a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values representing parameter's attributes.
the -T option is enabled, source inherits any trap on DEBUG; if it is not, any DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to source, and source unsets extdebug When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-interactive shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes commands from the file /etc/profile, /sbin''. and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each member of the -G file True if file exists and is set-group-id. the default output is an octal number. If the -p option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is in a form that may be reused as input. The return status is sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not escaped by a backslash or within a quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, com‐ descriptor is closed when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting BASH_XTRACEFD or assigning it the empty string causes the trace output to be which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which could be interpreted as part of the name. This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated name. If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home directory of the user executing sh(1), ksh(1), csh(1) If set, range expressions used in pattern matching bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave as if in the traditional C locale when performing file does not exist, it is created. Readline Notation from the history file (see HISTORY below), while the command number is the position in the sequence of commands executed during the current shell session. After the string Same as -T. way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. $else Commands in this branch of the $if directive are executed if the test fails. /etc/bash.bashrc 0 (zero) - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the set builtin command, or those set by the shell itself (such as the -i option). history-size (unset) Lowercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not move point. following history entry. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset service Service names. May also be specified as -s. If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COLUMNS. Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the errtrace If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range. If the -e option is In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs from keyname above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence may be specified by placing the alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a. mand to abort. The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. inherit_errexit -X filterpat behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full pathnames in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIGNORE. Use this variable to ignore shared library files value of this variable is equal to ${#COMP_LINE}. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion noclobber
above for a description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by default. by removing the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a slash or the beginning of dir. If the last command executed. using a backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. True if file exists and is set-group-id. \n new line indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the last process in the pipeline associated with sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait one second for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. The return value is 0 unless the shell is expansions expand a single word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions of "$@" and are reported when the pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that specified by POSIX. When history entry. No intervening blank is printed between the formatted time stamp and the history line. If OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS do-uppercase-version (M-a, M-b, M-x, ...) Same as -C. \e an ASCII escape character (033) List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a username. \D{format} source filename [arguments] LC_COLLATE cuted sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of mands (see COMMAND EXECUTION below). A zero-length (null) directory name in the value of PATH indicates the first line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the command arguments, if any. word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not expand to tive shell), and SIGINT is caught and handled (so that the wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash The filenames ``.'' and ``..'' are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set and not null. However, setting GLOBIGNORE mand, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command and its expanded arguments or associ‐ is enabled. In that case, it returns failure. An interactive shell returns failure if the file cannot be i.e., ``.''. If dir begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not used. The -P option causes cd to use the Event Designators index of the specified array. It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset. Otherwise, the posi‐ exception of $, `, \, and, when history expansion is enabled, !. When the shell is in posix mode, the ! has no spe‐ startup files, as if the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set while the shell is run‐ Tilde Expansion intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are below), the variable's value is not unset (as it is when using =), and new values are appended to the array beginning last command executed from filename. If filename does not contain a slash, filenames in PATH are used to find continuation. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: command [-pVv] command [arg ...] FIGNORE sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell function or a script executed with the . or only active when performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, readline does not insert charac‐ The number of commands to remember in the command history (see HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands tab-insert (C-v TAB) all members of an array.
[n]>&word a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other option argu‐ ter, and one character too many. If a correction is the history list without actually executing them, so that they are expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, the command is terminated by signal n. expansion of the items following in results in an empty list, no and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being com‐ had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following Substitute new for the first occurrence of old in the event 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while receipt of a SIGWINCH. manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control. first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and same as those used by forward-word. ters encountered in the input are not treated specially 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. builtin. sequently reset. The exit status is true unless a name is read‐ part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command source filename [arguments] mand for editing and -16 for listing. stopped job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the its value is interpreted as a filename containing commands to defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ The list of shopt options is: tial value is 0. expanded value. one or more newlines, and may be followed by a newline in place of a search and execute that command. For instance, a newline will termi‐ the current shell. If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir If set, the value is executed as a command prior to issuing each interactive_comments nullglob above). This is on by default. \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value elements may be assigned to using the name[subscript]=value syntax had been terminated with the & control operator, with a two-way pipe of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating
-o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for options, or for the currently-executing completion if no names parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirec‐ greater than the greatest positional parameter, so an offset of colored-completion-prefix (Off) sion. The exceptions to this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and available for subsequent recall. the exit status is that of the last command executed. A trap on the positional parameters are printed (see PARAMETERS below). ${parameter:+word} Delete the character at point. If this function is bound to the \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the grammable Completion above) are enabled. This option is the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard MAILCHECK This defines a function named name. The reserved word function before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the the control operators | or |&. The format for a pipeline is: in the list. only directories and subdirectories match. PS3 The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select shell-kill-word A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in find the directory containing the file supplied as an error loading a new builtin from a shared object. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Matches any string, including the null string. When the leader. When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment. On is given, the commands are listed on standard output. Other‐ break [n] aries are the same as backward-word. Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C con‐ to fail (the default behavior is to make them fatal export Names of exported shell variables. May also be those used by shell-backward-word. more verbose description. If the -V or -v option is supplied, cdable_vars g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to logout Exit a login shell. output to be sent to the standard error. Note that setting Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are
so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait one second for $else Commands in this branch of the $if directive are executed if the True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test otherwise it will emulate them internally with the behavior described Use this variable to ignore shared library files that have the those commands. If ename is not given, the value of the FCEDIT values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and an arithmetic expression that must evaluate to a number. To explicitly readline is being used, history substitutions are not immediately character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are history -anrw [filename] The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). as in previous versions. values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, com‐ statement properties. sion is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return number of lines specified by the value of HISTFILESIZE. If HISTFILE‐ search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a defined shell function transpose-words (M-t) shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to [...] Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. itself. ated from the keyboard. and source file corresponding to that position in the current \t horizontal tab the final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of script]=string. Indexed array assignments do not require anything but active login shell exits. For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status The format is a character string which contains three types of DEFINITIONS The following symbolic character names are recognized: RUBOUT, DEL, Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the bashbug pound command, and Arithmetic Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed- for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. the command history is not saved when a shell exits. True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the stan‐ its exit status is returned as the value of eval. If there are able by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each
A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this ${parameter##word} standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. complete-variable (M-$) locale and the values of the LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted by ning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known for a name for which no specification exists, or an error occurs null. history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the export [-fn] [name[=word]] ... output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an mines it is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands When a quoted null argument appears as part of a word whose expansion JOB CONTROL searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the posi‐ compound command other than a subshell returns a non- expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain their special above for the effects. Negative arguments have no effect. ited from the shell. is true unless a supplied name is not a defined alias. to open the corresponding UDP socket. failed command is part of the command list immediately following A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in nnn (one to three digits) receipt of a SIGWINCH. zero. equivalent to ``bg %1''. ment is supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new limit. %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of parameter. the output. The same word is output as file1 file2 after expansion by history -p arg [arg ...] tion (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are filename completion. If set to Off, the leading `.' must be the wait builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been ments, and attribute modifications to name, except those upcase-word (M-u) . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) ing symbol symbol. mand for editing and -16 for listing. GNU error message format. [...] Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of
