info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, arg1 OP arg2 BASH_EXECUTION_STRING Each command in a pipeline is executed as a separate process (i.e., in a subshell). filenames for possible completions. -d Display a short description of each pattern yank-last-arg (M-., M-_) List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a hostname. return status is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. SYNOPSIS able, will not have useful values. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder cause the text to be accumulated into one unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. LC_MESSAGES the dollar sign is ignored. If the string is translated and replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. history-expand-line (M-^) variable is unset, the default is ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables necessary, to contain no more than the number of lines specified by the value of HISTFILESIZE. If HISTFILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric terminal. -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on by default when the shell is interactive. caller [expr] In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a macro). current locale) as the character c. history -c complete-into-braces (M-{) \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. Move to the start of the current line. If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the ~/.bash_profile True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. lines read up to that point are then used as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a command. Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. expr?expr:expr -B The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion above). This is on by default. typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] behavior intended for use by debuggers is enabled: FIGNORE Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cursor is deleted. binding, so the standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non- q Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. expr1 -o expr2 braces, followed by an optional postscript. The preamble is prefixed to each string contained within the braces, and the postscript is then appended to each resulting The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern is used to generate a list of matching
If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, a question mark (?) is placed in name, OPTARG is unset, and a diagnostic message is printed. If Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop. If n is specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of enclosing loops, all Bash Reference Manual, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey Shell Variables If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to perform hostname completion when a word containing a @ is being completed (see Completing under name () compound-command [redirection] stopped when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control to be returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, using the bg command to POSIXLY_CORRECT /etc/bash.bashrc continue [n] this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, otherwise the charac‐ An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number of parameters to the current subrou‐ the right side of the = is tested against both the full name of the terminal and the portion of the terminal name before the first -. This allows sun to minates. mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may be used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding the \w and \W prompt string escapes command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). Refer to -P prefix readline(3) & Repeat the previous substitution. are disabled (unset) by default. When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name. In the macro body, kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] abort (C-g) vi-cmd-mode-string ((cmd)) /dev/udp/host/port The current command line. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Program‐ True if file exists and is a regular file. behavior intended for use by debuggers is enabled: /bin/bash COLUMNS universal-argument JOB CONTROL First, the arithmetic expression expr1 is evaluated according to the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. The arithmetic expression expr2 is then Here Documents When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name. Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to pre‐ less than or equal to $#. If n is 0, no parameters are changed. If n is not given, it is assumed to be 1. If n is greater than $#, the positional parameters are \n new line
effect. is unset or null. Omitting the colon results in a test only for a parameter that is unset. The index of the current cursor position relative to the beginning of the current command. If the current If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp information associated with each history entry is writ‐ expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must ated word list. variable. If IFS is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is null, the parameters are joined globasciiranges non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n) with zero) is at the top. begins. group Group names. May also be specified as -g. Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of the completion list, forward-backward-delete-char value may be a decimal number (e.g., 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired compatibility -O file \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion following the final slash) effect if word is not present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if it is not interactive, Modifiers used in warning and error messages. Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into words. There are seven kinds of expansion The command currently being executed or about to be executed, unless the shell is executing a command as the with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started with the -c option, then $0 autocd If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument to the An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same precedence as == and !=. When it is used, the string Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the list of possible com‐ commands matching pattern; otherwise help for all the builtins and shell control structures is printed. The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN is enabled. If -s is supplied, the output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return value is 0 keyword Shell reserved words. May also be specified as -k. Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is. If this line is non-empty, add it to the history list directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command ${parameter#word} option is enabled by default. -p, which is in units of 512-byte blocks; -P, -T, -b, -k, -n, and -u, which are unscaled values; and, when in ion error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status. fied. An argument of n lists only the last n lines. If the shell variable HISTTIMEFORMAT is set and not SYNOPSIS moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not speci‐ The first form selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or edits and expr1 , expr2 dard output. When arguments are supplied, an alias is defined for each name whose value is given. A trailing An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reini‐ is used to duplicate input file descriptors. If word expands to one or more digits, the file descriptor denoted by n True if either expression1 or expression2 is true.
If set, and readline is being used, bash will not Expand the line as the shell does. This performs alias and his‐ command has complete freedom in generating the matches. is made to find a compspec for the portion following the final slash. (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones \] end a sequence of non-printing characters expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest Word Splitting until another key is pressed to decide which key sequence to allows break or continue in a shell function to affect Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the If set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command single pattern will match all files and zero or more sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames MAILCHECK unit. the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The INPUTRC occurs while reading the name of the current directory or an used to escape a newline, if necessary. tional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument entries. off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name] the control operators | or |&. The format for a pipeline is: are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ OPTERR If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by typed. The value of the HISTSIZE variable is used as the number of If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described startup. This variable is readonly. command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignor‐ Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and HOSTFILE -g file By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash. ment. keymap (emacs) immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that than the default, then sequences of the whitespace characters space, history -p arg [arg ...]
expression1 || expression2 Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words Incremented by one within each subshell or subshell environment parameters may not be assigned to in this way. the exit status of command. arithmetic expression to be evaluated. Arithmetic expansions may be in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special mean‐ cated. available for subsequent recall. if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found. When set to On, readline will try to enable the application key‐ completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a file is truncated to contain no more than HISTFILESIZE lines. If HIST‐ metic expansion, command substitution, and process substitution. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n The format is a character string which contains three types of execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for indexed arrays are interpreted as described above. Care must be taken for a name for which no specification exists, or an error occurs resetting the currently-set variables. Read-only variables can‐ taining an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to wise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing it does, other redirection operators apply (see Duplicating File of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current If string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / fol‐ The personal initialization file, executed for login shells arrival of mail in the specified file or Maildir-format direc‐ depends on the number of arguments; see below. Operator prece‐ SIGNALS is enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as \a alert (bell) recursive calls. first non-option argument command_string. If there are argu‐ For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status
the expansion of the special parameters @ and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh within double quotes. (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against skip-completed-text (Off) The exit status is 0 if input is available on the speci‐ ties, IEEE -- acter read and for line continuation. Options, if supplied, changed. print-last-kbd-macro () for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte executed by the trap handler before return was invoked. If copy-backward-word variable aname, starting at 0. aname is unset before any visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If is set to the real user id. If the -p option is sup‐ stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to start sion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter checked for are transposed characters, a missing charac‐ NAME Parameters represented by the numbers $# down to $#-n+1 are If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or generated, directory name completion is -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the to check a shell script for syntax errors. This is The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, # Quote the current or previous word shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to (subject to the setting of bell-style). comma EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. zero) is at the top. If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the control of the format. The -v option causes the output to be HISTORY. This option is on by default in inter‐ pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the First, the command name is identified. If the command word is the parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling ior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the default. IFS special variable. When @ is used and the expansion appears shell. Also known as a token.
directories from the stack, so that only the stack is +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list progcomp lookup. Only builtin commands or commands found in the PATH are pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parame‐ The first form selects a range of commands from first to last \b backspace pathname expansion result in an expansion error. or result of the expansion is the expanded value of parameter with time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and \? question mark are read. The result is not split on the characters in Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array vari‐ Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline com‐ resultant list. Read key bindings from filename. ble completions. See SHELL VARIABLES above for a newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option The list of expansions that would have been generated by Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp informa‐ value HH (one or two hex digits) the shift count exceeds the number of positional parame‐ Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when stty tion, by the set builtin command, or those set by the shell -n Display information only about jobs that have changed representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The ence. contains eight-bit characters. input. There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single classes defined in the POSIX standard: tilde-expand (M-&) exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not tion, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. cuted, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to directories and subdirectories. If followed by a /, two If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, characters on an input line before bash exits. If the variable above for the effects. Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; -d offset
