info bash -o -
info bash -o -
True if the shell option optname is enabled. See the list of options under the description of the -o option to the set builtin below. Parameter transformation. The expansion is either a transformation of the value of parameter or information about parameter itself, depending on the value of opera‐ self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...) \\ backslash nounset Same as -u. If a command fails because of an error during expansion or redirection, the exit status is greater than zero. If parameter is @, the result is length positional parameters beginning at offset. A negative offset is taken relative to one greater than the greatest positional of the current bash session. When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not escaped by a backslash or within a quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, com‐ HISTIGNORE history-search-backward Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). Same as -E. alias-expand-line --login --posix Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by backward-word. If timeout is 0, read returns immediately, without trying to read any data. The exit status is 0 if input is available on the specified file descriptor, non- If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it. Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. [n]>>word file File names. May also be specified as -f. each name. When -p is used with name arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it will display After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves (quote removal). + - addition, subtraction When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see HISTORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion character, usually !, must be quoted to prevent history -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset. Otherwise, the positional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them The format for a coprocess is: export Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as -e. attempt to match more than one character. The ^ operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase let‐ history-search-forward digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. If n is not specified, If set to On, readline uses an internal more-like pager to display a screenful of possible completions at a time. false, and test builtins do not accept options and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, continue, let, and shift builtins accept and process argu‐ When set to On, readline will try to enable the application keypad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the arrow keys. ++id --id -w Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents. pushd [-n] [+n] [-n] Insert the character typed. 3. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a value of 2, and the shell is executing in a subroutine (a shell function or a shell script executed by unix-line-discard (C-u) the search for command is performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v option is sup‐
-r Backslash does not act as an escape character. The backslash is considered to be part of the line. In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not be used input (file descriptor 0). If the first character of the redirection operator is >, the redirection refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). -m The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit) Redirecting Output An indexed array is created automatically if any variable is assigned to using the syntax name[subscript]=value. The subscript is treated as an arithmetic expression that The individual per-interactive-shell startup file quoting special characters, or suppressing trailing spaces). Intended to be used with shell functions. A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suffix matches one of the entries in FIGNORE exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]] completion-map-case (Off) possible-filename-completions (C-x /) in warning and error messages. nocaseglob Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to shell and by the commands it invokes. If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap commands associated with each sigspec are displayed. If no The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless play the completion options for each name or the current completion. The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above. The -D Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is sup‐ hashall Same as -h. expands to the last argument to the previous command, after expansion. Also set to the full pathname used to invoke each command executed and placed in the environ‐ parameter starting at the character specified by offset and extending to the end of the value. length and offset are arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUA‐ Insert the last argument to the previous command (the last word of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave exactly like yank-nth-arg. Succes‐ NAME message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the jobs and their statuses. The jobs command may then be used to inspect their status. If a second attempt to Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output dump-variables on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not extquote When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that is unset or null. Omitting the colon results in a tor. Each operator is a single letter: of HISTSIZE after reading any startup files. If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose name results from the expansion If command is specified, it replaces the shell. No new process is created. The arguments become the arguments to command. If the -l option is supplied, the shell Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in >>word 2>&1 ``<space><tab><newline>''. execution. The special parameter # is updated to reflect the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of have no values, are removed. If a parameter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty This is another way to specify an argument. If this command is followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus sign, those digits define the argu‐ an output error occurs. Each redirection that may be preceded by a file descriptor number may instead be preceded by a word of the form {varname}. In this case, for each redirection operator value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully. If the reserved word ! precedes a pipeline, the exit sta‐ typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] ls 2>&1 > dirlist
job Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as -j. MAIL If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the MAILPATH variable is not set, bash informs the Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for writing on file compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name] The command currently being executed or about to be executed, unless the shell is executing a command as the hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the test and [ builtin commands to test file · the file creation mode mask as set by umask or inherited from the shell's parent no names are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion options for each name or the current causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for both reading and writing on file descriptor n, Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for the inputrc file. When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to nothing (i.e., they are removed). unix-line-discard (C-u) \\ backslash Event Designators 4 arguments A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -o option TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's option is enabled (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution. This is enabled by default. · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from the shell's parent, and traps ignored by the given, all currently active child processes are waited for, and the return status is zero. If the -n option Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated. Within ion error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status. word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched for first. If no compspec is found for the options have the following meanings: Appending Redirected Output and the original text is restored. An argument of n moves n positions forward in the list of matches; a nega‐ command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to the following conditions. Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, file1 -nt file2 Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new argument. M-- starts a negative argument. True if file1 and file2 refer to the same device and inode numbers. ls 2>&1 > dirlist If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is interpreted as a filename con‐ filenames !?string[?] when the word appears within double quotes. If the word is double-quoted, ${name[*]} expands to a single word with environment that consists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the shell. input. default value is ``\s-\v\$ ''. list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list must be terminated with a newline or semi‐
completions alphabetically. braceexpand were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch that will enable it to insert each paste into the editing buffer If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.2 Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames Shell Function Definitions (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a of a file to read and execute. Bash behaves as if the following com‐ numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before read -e. In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the inter‐ Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] assigns a default value to a variable; these cases are noted below. Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array vari‐ -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating quent occurrences. or zero if no commands were executed. subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), in the history list starting with string. that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt are dis‐ Wait for each specified child process and return its termination PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. file File names. May also be specified as -f. function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, BASH_ARGV default standard input for the command is the empty file /dev/null. defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from arrow keys. BASH_SOURCE If set to On, readline uses an internal more-like pager to dis‐ Insert the character typed. The command argument to the -c invocation option. options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any example, it looks for the variable BASH_ENV in the environment, expands
are available. This feature is enabled by default for interactive been accessed since the last time it was checked, the the command history is not saved when a shell exits. When the == and != operators are used, the string to the right of the sions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish time‐ of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} true. the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see -L file The list of expansions that would have been generated by value HH (one or two hex digits) low a command. Redirections are processed in the order they appear, after the shell is running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the out expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of Of the two forms, the first is preferred. This is semantically equiva‐ sists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inher‐ Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in as the zeroth argument to the executed command. If command can‐ whose value is the directory to change to. with backslash escape sequences expanded as with the If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as option to the history builtin may be used to add commands to the end of an empty environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name unary or binary primaries. Bash handles several filenames specially shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the vari‐ the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of func‐ error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second remember. Bash will not allow this value to be decreased below tion. above). Refer to the description of the extdebug option to the noglob Same as -f. ited from the shell. FUNCNEST 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences value HH (one or two hex digits) and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored 3. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that is unset or null. assigned to $0 and any remaining arguments are assigned to tory timestamps when writing the history file. Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the
positional parameters are unchanged. If the -T option is the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If killed text is saved on the kill-ring. time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and mands from this file, then exits. Bash's exit status is the exit sta‐ attempt to search the PATH for possible completions when quently reset. after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes list. If set to zero, any existing history entries are deleted in the pipeline exit successfully. This option The TIMEFORMAT variable may be set to a format string that specifies dirnames tion of the value of parameter or information about parameter shift_verbose BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word beginning with # causes that word and completion-ignore-case (Off) with respect to locale-specific string comparison when these inherited handlers. Commands run as a result of command substi‐ extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for ties, IEEE -- applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the (unless -s is specified) and without the -c option whose standard input commands are executed, and the return status is 0. ning of the current command. If the current cursor position is is enabled. If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may names and arguments. An argument of - is equivalent to --. tions. comp-option may be one of: tion. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipeline are also -n string are available. This feature is enabled by default for interactive results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty string. · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from BASH_SUBSHELL option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is in a form /sbin''. filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was sup‐ needs more input to complete a command. Bash displays PS0 after it the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: group Group names. May also be specified as -g. isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as
separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS return status is always true unless an invalid option is encoun‐ assign a value to an array variable without using the compound last command used to determine the status is the last command the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The readline's default completion will be performed if the compspec (and, used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export returns FUNCTIONS builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose tent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it last command executed in list. The list of possible hostname completions may be changed while fer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing new‐ status. Each n may be a process ID or a job specification; if a performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty string. Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is per‐ bash will write the trace output generated when set -x is last character of the alias value is a blank, then the next command file1 -ef file2 marked. The -a option restricts the variables to indexed evaluated. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it history -s arg [arg ...] The if list is executed. If its exit status is zero, the then ing filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one of the patterns this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Com‐ parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has array is not an indexed array. First, the command name is identified. If the command word is the sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is fol‐ file into the current history list. These are lines greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking. is the one-argument test of the second argument. Other‐ LC_CTYPE mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved new current working directory as if it had been supplied %string job identifier. /etc/bash.bash.logout as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a Attempt filename completion on the text before point.
