info bash -o -
info bash -o -
privileged The redirection operator Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence. The evaluation depends on the number of arguments; see below. history-search-backward Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the dirnames The option-name can be one of the following: mand is immediately followed by a character that is neither a digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next command is multiplied by four. The argument string is used. id++ id-- the end of the line; no characters are required to isolate it. Provides control over the resources available to the shell and to processes started by it, on systems that allow such control. The -H and -S options specify that have no values, are removed. If a parameter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty subdirectories. mand (see SHELL GRAMMAR below) or the third word of a case or for command: standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non-printing charac‐ When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the full filename of the command and passed to that command in its environment. ignoreeof checkhash job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the %string job identifier. received the interrupt; previous versions continue with the next command in the list. to give variables attributes: · shell functions defined during execution or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with variables exported for the command, passed in the environment expr1 , expr2 -c If the -c option is present, then commands are read from the first non-option argument command_string. If there are arguments after the command_string, the first \w the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde (uses the value of the PROMPT_DIRTRIM variable) in the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the Escape and Control-J char‐ unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...] If timeout is 0, read returns immediately, without trying to read any data. The exit status is 0 if input is available on the specified file descriptor, non- enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. export Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as -e. COPYRIGHT [...] Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of characters separated by a hyphen denotes a range expression; any character that falls between those two ues). The current version is also a valid value. q Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. The individual per-interactive-shell startup file -x Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the environment. pletion below). Each array element contains one possible completion. This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, the mark is set to that position. return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command used to determine the status is the last command executed by the trap handler before return was invoked. If If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to.
delimiter An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to the current position in the his‐ \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) example, to use the test binary found via the PATH instead of the shell builtin version, run ``enable -n test''. The -f option means to load the new builtin command primaries is of the form /dev/fd/n, then file descriptor n is checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file OP is one of -eq, -ne, -lt, -le, -gt, or -ge. These arithmetic binary operators return true if arg1 is equal to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the command to exit with a non-zero -a aname IGNOREEOF ALIASES If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is the empty file /dev/null. Otherwise, the invoked command BASH_ARGC. The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below) Commands for Moving places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with an empty whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being \h the hostname up to the first `.' HOSTFILE commands. If bash is invoked in this fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes the second. nameref attribute, the list of words can be a list of shell variables, and a name reference will be established for each word in the list, in turn, when the loop is exe‐ ${!name[@]} REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when no arguments are supplied. 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions above. Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. force_fignore name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an underscore. Also referred to as an identifier. The string of characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the character as a command. If this variable has not been given by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. A shell variable that is null or unset evaluates to 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. \t horizontal tab command as it would appear in .inputrc, but each binding or command must be passed as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file'. Options, if sup‐ Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off (without regard to case). Unrecognized variable names are ignored. When a variable value is read, If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, bash will write the trace output generated when set -x is enabled to that file descriptor. The file pletion. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion \n new line MACHTYPE BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of bash. do-uppercase-version (M-a, M-b, M-x, ...) This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command mode. The value is expanded like a key True if file exists. the history comment character to mark history timestamps when writing the history file. The general format for redirecting output is: to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to backward-delete-char replace the character before point with
only. the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: quote removal. The result is treated as the arithmetic expression to be evaluated. Arithmetic expansions may be tus is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return status is 1. p Print the new command but do not execute it. expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Each character in the expanded value of parame‐ on the standard error, each preceded by a number. If the in word is omitted, the positional parameters are ${parameter:=word} Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options. an exception to the usual printf behavior. word in the line. than down the screen. Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. ter starting at the character specified by offset and extending to the end of the value. length and offset The general format for appending output is: -P If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when executing commands such as cd that change the True if the length of string is zero. -t timeout false otherwise. patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: cases are noted below. The redirection operator each matched character in the expanded value; the ^ and , expansions match and convert only the first charac‐ inhibit truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value of HISTSIZE after reading any startup about parameter itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a single letter: ters, digits, and the character _. dard output. When arguments are supplied, an alias is defined for each name whose value is given. A trailing builtins). Without expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of the current subroutine call. sis is inserted. BASHPID option is enabled (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the programmable completion facility (see Programmable Completion below). Each array element contains one possi‐ whose standard input and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), or one started with the with the jobs command. When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a line that looks like: Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. -c The maximum size of core files created directory. cases, the ``.'' character is not treated specially. See the description of shopt below under SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a way that they can be re-read. for additional input. If this variable is set to a value less than or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to using the -F or -C options, the various shell variables set by the programmable completion facilities, while ment n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the "!n" history expansion had been specified. comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. declare -n ref=$1
expansion of parameters that have no values, are removed. If a parame‐ Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed The shell exits by default upon receipt of a SIGHUP. Before exiting, arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the If parameter is an indexed array name subscripted by @ or *, the ited from the shell. -a file syntax to create array variables, additional attributes do not its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. Same as -p. If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return status is 1. compat40 PROMPTING below). $'...' quoting mechansim. meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special mean‐ { list; } <= >= < > Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete BASHOPTS magic-space value. See also the exit builtin command below. remaining options should apply to ``empty'' command completion; Same as -C. just those that precede the command name. 0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above names matching a pattern. If GLOBIGNORE is set, each matching filename If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several last command used to determine the status is the last command backward-delete-char (Rubout) attempted that caused a completion function to be called: TAB, · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command receives signal(s) sigspec. If arg is absent (and there is a inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once of an inputrc file. 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an ple optname arguments are given with -q, the return sta‐ along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters, delimits a field. A command is executed. This command is bound to M-# in emacs mode current user is a member. Assignments to GROUPS have no effect. their original values in a subshell or subshell environment when i.e., ``.''. If dir begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not unwritable, the history is not saved. If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of -s If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after
last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) active shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes com‐ -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Alternative >&word -r keyseq Same as -H. erenced using arbitrary strings. Unless otherwise noted, indexed array value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments are /sbin''. character-search-backward (M-C-]) single pattern will match all files and zero or more files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION ment to the function. For instance, if a variable name is passed to a · importing function definitions from the shell environment at · current traps set by trap the last command executed within the script as the exit status an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one *, the case modification operation is applied to each member of errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input zero. denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line sepa‐ exiting if any jobs are stopped. list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds mines it is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to ASCII characters will collate together. checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon result is the length members of the array beginning with variables, if set. To obtain the traditional interpreta‐ another file to be read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the unset. When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit ized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. executes the exit builtin command, bash reads and executes commands An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit The operator evaluated. When += is applied to an array variable using compound words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion,
be included, depending on the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the -c option specifies quantum. compat31 Process substitution allows a process's input or output to be referred the set. A ] may be matched by including it as the first Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns noclobber The redirection operator If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all cursor position. This variable is available only in shell func‐ words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and or no matches were generated. -A action variable is unset, or set to a value that is not a number !(pattern-list) bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been capitalize-word (M-c) children and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is If set, the pattern 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh used in a pathname expansion con‐ list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit sta‐ · shell functions defined during execution or inherited from the read by the mapfile builtin when no variable name is supplied. Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or break [n] 2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are ble completions. See SHELL VARIABLES above for a readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to all members of an array. The value of this parameter is used as a format string specify‐ This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin. Individual array become the possible completions. The special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ have special meaning when in double If set to On, readline will undo all changes to history lines The following is a list of the names of the commands and the default job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown builtin visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If comma The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. interface supplied jointly by the operating system kernel's terminal allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin EXECIGNORE in the list. with the last part of the original word. This is analogous to the
startup (those preceding the command name) and redirections are saved used. The -P option causes cd to use the physical directory option has been enabled. · options enabled by shopt Miscellaneous DIRSTACK SHELL GRAMMAR is supplied, only disabled builtins are printed. If -a is sup‐ COMP_POINT the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the Show version information for this instance of bash on the stan‐ active login shell exits. copy-forward-word bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test display-shell-version (C-x C-v) commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines error, each preceded by a number. If the in word is omitted, line>''. listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may placed in the environment exported to that command. When check‐ the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and using disown -h. delimiter. wise. ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]] has no effect if the -f option is supplied. If no options are variable post-increment and post-decrement The compiler used to compile startup files are read. ignoreeof delete-char (C-d) named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if the list. compound command other than a subshell returns a non- value HH (one or two hex digits) \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal ishes executing. [-+]O [shopt_option] PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) fashion when performing pathname expansion (see Pathname ual words in the current command line. The line is split into The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, explicitly declare an array. There is no maximum limit on the size of quoted strings preceded by a $.
