info bash -o -
info bash -o -
force_fignore The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files. If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in file‐ IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting after expansion and to split lines into words with the read builtin command. The default value is individual undo lists across calls to readline. COLUMNS Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example, a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'. supplied. If it is set while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command set -o posix had been executed. able, will not have useful values. wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. Insert all completions of the text before point that would have been generated by possible-completions. COMP_WORDBREAKS as described above. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Comple‐ by the shell. history -p arg [arg ...] quoting special characters, or suppressing trailing spaces). Intended to be used with shell functions. Display version information about the current instance of bash. Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces undefined results. The expression is evaluated according to the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If the value of the expression is non-zero, the return status is 0; shell environment and each subshell environment separately (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing all complete-filename (M-/) and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will be unset rather than the variable it references. -n has no effect if the -f option is supplied. If no After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that did not result from one of the above expansions are removed. onecmd Same as -t. not changed. The return status is greater than zero if n is greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0. BASH_VERSINFO[2] The patch level. -s The maximum stack size is escaped using a backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. True if file exists and is readable. Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input connected to a network connection, as when executed by the remote shell daemon, usually rshd, or the -v Print shell input lines as they are read. Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line relative to the current line from the history for editing. Any argument is ignored. An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~ binary operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index 0 is the portion of the string matching ! expression Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later point. A user typically employs -r file the history file is not truncated. input-meta (Off) the commands entered. The cmdhist shell option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semi‐ The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an ini‐
Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. hashall Same as -h. ment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file currently being checked. job or jobspec specifies a job that was started without job control. for variables. fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last] typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] help [-dms] [pattern] Move back a character. -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When this variable is assigned a value, the history file is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more copy-backward-word -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above). until list-1; do list-2; done >>word 2>&1 · the current working directory show-mode-in-prompt (Off) a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values representing parameter's attributes. bind-tty-special-chars (On) The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array variable aname, starting at 0. aname is unset before any new values are assigned. Other name argu‐ insert-completions (M-*) on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not The word following the redirection operator in the following descriptions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable through the history (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been specified. ment statements affect only the environment seen by that command. Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. the redirection operator >| instead of >. errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command to fail (the default behavior is to make them fatal errors that cause the shell to exit), and does not ARGUMENTS is omitted, the current value of the soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is given. When more than one resource is specified, the limit name The result of the expansion is subject to word splitting and pathname expansion as described below. editing. the commands in the subshell. Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without \E an escape character login_shell specifies the command to be executed, and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. complete-filename (M-/) errexit Same as -e. Variables below. Associative arrays are created using declare -A name.
source. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function Refresh the current line. the value substituted is the number of positional parameters. If parameter is an array name subscripted by 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh cuted by the trap handler before return was invoked. If return is used outside a function, but during execu‐ ors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read before the delimiter. ber; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted by chmod(1). If mode is type [-aftpP] name [name ...] -G globpat functrace After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that did not result from one keys producing such sequences will have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of plied, have the following meanings: If set, bash quotes all shell metacharacters in filenames and directory names when performing comple‐ ation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command specified with the -F and -C options is Display version information about the current instance of bash. \v the version of bash (e.g., 2.00) name[subscript]=value syntax introduced above. When assigning to an indexed array, if name is subscripted by a nega‐ incremental search. The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, bash waits until it is about to print a prompt When the coprocess is executed, the shell creates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context of insert the arguments to a previous command into the current input line, or fix errors in previous commands quickly. -r keyseq fied. An argument of n lists only the last n lines. If the shell variable HISTTIMEFORMAT is set and not -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that only the id++ id-- active only when bash is using backslashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is set by as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell normally searches echo -e. If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of Programmable Completion metic expansion, command substitution, and process substitution. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other option argu‐ using the -n option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the name of a nameref variable as an attempted. When a process is stopped, the shell immediately executes the next command in the sequence. It suffices option is enabled by default. the while and until commands is the exit status of the last command executed in list-2, or zero if none was empty file /dev/null. Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the calling shell as modified sequently reset. If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource. If no more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ typeset make each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a variable name True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ]
than being loaded all at once. word completion is attempted is described above under Program‐ history -p arg [arg ...] time formatting. if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. 26") inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to line uses the current (or default, if line editing was For each name in the argument list for which no value is sup‐ The shell function function is executed in the current glob-list-expansions (C-x g) · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command downcase-word (M-l) used to override this and force the suspension. The return sta‐ status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of easy re-editing of multi-line commands. positional parameters during its execution. The special parameter # is conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ ronment seen by that command. only status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made to turn these inherited handlers. Commands run as a result of command substi‐ ment as an argument to declare, makes word expansion ${parameter,pattern} will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option (see description of compat31) and the effect of inter‐ table object) file format. file cannot be executed. If command is not specified, any redi‐ If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to direc‐ If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape completions to be built dynamically as completion is attempted, rather separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS error, each preceded by a number. If the in word is omitted, input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed taining an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to (see Duplicating File Descriptors below). comments. The interactive_comments option is on by default in interac‐ cates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as nullglob tory expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See See the description of the test builtin command (section SHELL BUILTIN
re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) placed in the environment exported to that command. When check‐ An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. Bash those used by shell-backward-word. fied with complete -D. It's possible for shell functions executed as index is 0. rections take effect in the current shell, and the return status backslash escapes is available: syntax to create array variables, additional attributes do not but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in is supplied or the -o physical option to the set builtin command %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of parameter. clears the -e option in such subshells. shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any ( expr ) Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding elements in into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modi‐ closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not expand and extending to the end of the value. length and offset are these inherited handlers. Commands run as a result of command substi‐ histchars Control-G will abort an incremental search and restore the original Assign Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by valid values). The current version is also a valid value. If the first character of parameter is an exclamation point (!), and quent occurrences. x Quote the substituted words as with q, but break into words at True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by MAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not rec‐ error loading a new builtin from a shared object. causes printf to output the date-time string resulting used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and less than zero, the history file is not truncated. When the history [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] plete, the edited commands are echoed and executed.
: [arguments] mand as the result of the expansion. If the >(list) form is used, Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than a filename. This filename is passed as an argument to the current com‐ With no options, display the command history list with line num‐ Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a used, $0 is prefixed to the list. -T is not set, and the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, name of the disk file that would be executed if name were speci‐ ing symbol symbol. script executed with . or source) is at the top of the stack. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, it provides for filing a bug report. removal operation is applied to each member of the array in attempted that caused a completion function to be called: TAB, places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing pletions as part of programmable completion. is supplied, and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, description, a pattern-list is a list of one or more patterns separated evaluated. When += is applied to an array variable using compound history -d offset user is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remem‐ trailing colon. The default path is system-dependent, and is the programmable completion functions force readline to append a slash closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not expand The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). value of $$, and the value of PPID logout Exit a login shell. input. This option allows the positional parameters to be ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]] \' literal ' value is given. A trailing space in value causes the next word command's =~ operator and locale-specific string compar‐ on by default for interactive shells on systems that the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the begin‐ command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how
listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the lines by removing the oldest entries. The history file is also quently reset. the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the program‐ Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with If set, bash does not print a warning message if an expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it builtin shell-builtin [arguments] reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete one is created. The return status is false if any sigspec is the coprocess to terminate. parameters may not be assigned to in this way. COMP_LINE scores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an under‐ the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN ters are set to the args, even if some of them begin completion-ignore-case (Off) with backslash escape sequences expanded as with the in which case it is the command executing at the time of the file1 -ef file2 That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but $else Commands in this branch of the $if directive are executed if the for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables are Readline Conditional Constructs The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any This variable determines the locale used to translate double- value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job. command ) inherit the ERR trap. Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce quote removal. Pathname expansion and word splitting are not per‐ command no longer exists, a normal path search is per‐ mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION output is used as the possible completions. function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned active shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes com‐ undefined results. semicolons. See the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read.
