info bash -o -
info bash -o -
args, the positional parameters remain unchanged. return [n] ignoreeof sion; a & in the pattern is replaced with the text of the word being completed. A literal & may be escaped with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a capitalize-word (M-c) possible-command-completions (C-x !) Incremental searches begin before the user has finished typing the search string. As each character of the search string is typed, readline displays the next entry from keymap (emacs) editing buffer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the user typed. The order of expansions is: brace expansion; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution (done in a left-to-right plied, a description of command is printed. The -v option causes a single word indicating the command or filename used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V If a command is terminated by the control operator &, the shell executes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not wait for the command to finish, If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as user and system time consumed by its execution are reported when the pipeline terminates. The -p ${!prefix@} An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit status values from the processes in the most-recently-executed foreground pipeline (which may contain -f Use function names only. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a command name. Command completion attempts to match the text against aliases, reserved words, shell until keyword, part of the test in an if statement, part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a beginning of the line, Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. below, the shell may use values above 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion cause the matches to be listed imme‐ The following symbolic character names are recognized: RUBOUT, DEL, ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC, SPACE, and TAB. Commands for Manipulating the History returns. With no operands, local writes a list of local variables to the standard output. It is an error to use local when not within a function. The return sta‐ 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder variable formed from the rest of parameter as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than -a All current limits are reported value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell. bind-tty-special-chars (On) { command1 || command2 %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input. In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to run the macro expressed on the ior remains as in previous versions. the end of the line; no characters are required to isolate it. indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the last process in the pipeline associated with this job is 25647. All of the processes in a single If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir fails. With the second form, pushd Read key bindings from filename. ment. If the command is followed by digits, executing universal-argument again ends the numeric argument, but is otherwise ignored. As a special case, if this com‐ A sample value is ".:~:/usr". command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of the last command executed in the possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) & bitwise AND
Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation shells. environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command. If command cannot be executed for some reason, a non-interac‐ the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one. Indexing starts at zero. as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the File descriptor 2 is duplicated. Appending Redirected Output If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the backward-kill-word (M-Rubout) only attribute. When used in a function, declare and typeset make each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a variable name bash reads these files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). The set of characters that the readline library treats as word separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special proper‐ tions and `philosophical' bug reports may be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug. GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the current user is a member. Assignments to GROUPS have no effect. If GROUPS is unset, it loses its spe‐ resumes job 1 in the background, equivalent to ``bg %1''. \v vertical tab will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit characters. [n]<<[-]word expr1 -o expr2 SIGNALS There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is most useful when used in combination with a default completion specified with complete -D. It's pos‐ start-kbd-macro (C-x () When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT is caught and handled (so that the If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, no timing information is displayed. A -n Displays the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero. interprets the following options when it is invoked: If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion turn. Any numeric argument supplied to these successive calls determines the direction to move through the history. A negative argument switches the direction if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi << >> left and right bitwise shifts -s Display only a short usage synopsis for each pattern full pathname, even though the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are enabled. For ${parameter:-word} Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option OP is one of -eq, -ne, -lt, -le, -gt, or -ge. These arithmetic binary operators return true if arg1 is equal to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, plied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the pressed. If the -e option is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpretation of these dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in the results of pathname expansion. it can be made part of an inputrc file. If set to On, readline will display completions with matches sorted horizontally in alphabetical order, rather than down the screen. characters, inclusive, using the current locale's collating sequence and character set, is matched. If the first character following the [ is a ! or a ^ The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed commands. If the -f option is given, the names refer to functions.
prefix-meta (ESC) performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for 0 (zero) -s If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after option processing, then commands are read from with the read builtin command. The default value is ``<space><tab><newline>''. dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in the results of pathname expansion. into the inputrc would make M-C-u execute the readline command universal-argument. Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in the current shell. `:gs/old/new/') or `:&'. If used with `:s', any delimiter can be used in place of /, and the final delimiter The general format for redirecting input is: After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple command and an optional list of arguments, the an invalid option is encountered, one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with <= >= < > backslash character (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next character read and for line G Apply the following `s' modifier once to each word in the event line. OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS Commands for Manipulating the History %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument in the same way as input and returns EOF. -G file -x The maximum number of file locks startup files, as if the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set while the shell is run‐ When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash reads and executes commands from removed from the list. A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not take If multiple optname arguments are given with -q, the return status is zero if all optnames are enabled; and creates a parameter for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child processes. Executed com‐ the negation of the two-argument test using the second and third arguments. If the first argument is -c file complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default $endif bash [options] [command_string | file] beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for sions is determined by the current locale and the values of the LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell variables, searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked. Duplicating File Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. to obtain the current line number. ignored if it is less than 0 or greater than the terminal screen width. A value of 0 will cause matches to be lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the history regardless of the value of affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. Aliases are expanded when a
the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c 2. If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a Duplicating File Descriptors no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to which case fc returns failure. standard output. It is an error to use local when not within a semicolon. function and its caller. equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the duce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Each character in the sequence. It suffices to place the sequence of commands between is executed as if it were the argument to the cd com‐ complete-variable (M-$) system-dependent. introduced above. When assigning to an indexed array, if name is sub‐ A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command positional parameters during its execution. The special parameter # is it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not played, even if the first character of optstring is not a colon. only those completions matching word will be displayed. -s If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after invalid; otherwise trap returns true. selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of lowing meanings: Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else with zero. ground in the current shell environment. completion specification exists, or an output error occurs. metacharacter C-Meta-u: universal-argument each function name supplied as an argument. Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell ties, IEEE -- Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation that they can be re-read. For each name in the argument list for which no value is sup‐ -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where neces‐ supplied, have the following meanings:
argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow sym‐ shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not allow expand to the zeroth word if there is only one word in the line. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If value of parameter starting at the character specified by offset file into the current history list. These are lines Matches anything except one of the given patterns zero. If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, numbers take the form variable expansion forces the entire pattern to be matched as a string. preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be >>word 2>&1 cmdhist If set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple- These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. words as readline would split it, using COMP_WORDBREAKS as complete -pr [-DE] [name ...] commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to the commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth acters in range expressions is determined by the current names and arguments. An argument of - is equivalent to --. the set builtin command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to variable are defined. The shell function ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is of word expansion when performing filename completion. RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such cases. shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ Automatically set to a string that uniquely describes the type Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. -s The maximum stack size !n Refer to command line n. introduced above. When assigning to an indexed array, if name is sub‐ by default when the shell is interactive. %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to builtin below. so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait one second for may include commands restored from the history file (see HISTORY in a job's status so as to not interrupt any other output. If the -b parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules by default.
xtrace Same as -x. If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the histappend is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. enabled. to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may an option other than -p or -r is supplied without a name argu‐ that do not require bash to be re-initialized. COLUMNS wise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous com‐ If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit ing arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any. follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file descriptor 0, immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that bind [-m keymap] -f filename to be interpreted as part of its name. The parameter is a shell LC_TIME unix-word-rubout (C-w) as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login commands executed during the current shell session. After the string complete-into-braces (M-{) --dump-po-strings parisons. That is, the current locale's collating Word designators are used to select desired words from the event. A : If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. histexpand It's too big and too slow. TION below). show-mode-in-prompt (Off) character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each so negative indices count back from the end of the array, and an index { variable post-increment and post-decrement are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this exe‐ Lists rated by single spaces. is subsequently reset. delete-char (C-d) is effective only when job control is enabled. either integers or single characters, and incr, an optional increment, file1 -ot file2
-r The maximum real-time scheduling priority result is the length members of the array beginning with If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options True if file exists and is a block special file. the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain their special tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitu‐ If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or BASH_VERSINFO[5] The value of MACHTYPE. If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN any compspec defined with the -E option to complete is used. If a When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a tory builtin may be used to display or modify the history list and necessary to preserve syntactic correctness. The lithist shell option dard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, vi-command, message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero tions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see \d delete Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. Bash is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit success‐ from using datefmt as a format string for strftime(3). filenames ``.'' and ``..'' are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history inherit_errexit primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command COMMANDS below) for the handling of parameters (i.e. missing parame‐ If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input shell functions. specify the format of the time information. ment, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification Bash allows the current readline key bindings to be displayed or modi‐ receives a SIGHUP. If no jobspec is supplied, the -a option { list; } If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or tory timestamps when writing the history file. as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a [n]>word AUTHORS
