info bash -o -
info bash -o -
If set, the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion above) are enabled. This option is enabled by default. expression1 && expression2 declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] A description of the bug behaviour then any character not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of characters in range expressions is determined by the current locale and the values of the >word 2>&1 the history builtin. If this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history of the while and until commands is the exit status of the last command executed in list-2, or zero if none was executed. Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. here-document ${!prefix*} special characters that are decoded as follows: glob-expand-word (C-x *) | & ; ( ) < > space tab newline line are also executed in a subshell environment. Changes made to the subshell environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be omitted if string is followed immedi‐ which indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes history history-size (unset) Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and return the exit status of the last command executed from filename. If filename does not This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. Line editing is also used when Kill backward to the beginning of the line. shell environment and each subshell environment separately (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing all Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If subscript is @ or *, the word For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and assigned value. The option can be any of the options accepted by declare. When local is used within If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion. The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. \r carriage return ${parameter##word} job Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as -j. one greater than the maximum index of the array, so negative indices count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. tion is attempted, rather than being loaded all at once. enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list. If the list of values includes ignorespace, lines which begin with a space Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value substituted is the number of positional possible-variable-completions (C-x $) read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the shell with those options or allow them to be specified. set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...] protect them from expansion before the complete builtin is invoked. True if file exists and is a block special file.
Display information only about jobs that have changed status since the user was last notified of their status. is on by default if the shell is invoked as sh. The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array variable aname, starting at 0. aname is unset before any new values are assigned. Other name argu‐ If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. provides functionality analogous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a stopped True if the length of string is non-zero. builtin Names of shell builtin commands. May also be specified as -b. A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and in the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the Escape and Control-J char‐ · adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options to the enable builtin command second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being completed on the current command line. No filtering of --noediting startup files are executed, allowing the startup files to discover whether or not a shell is restricted. errexit Same as -e. vi-command; emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the value of editing-mode also affects the default keymap. cution to continue with the list associated with the next set of patterns. Using ;;& in place of ;; causes the shell to test the next pattern list in the statement, job Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as -j. attempt to match more than one character. The ^ operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase let‐ used, and the value of EDITOR if FCEDIT is not set. If neither variable is set, vi is used. When editing is complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option is given, the commands are listed on \r carriage return shell-kill-word shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups. A value of erasedups causes all previous lines matching the current line to be removed from the history list before that BASH_LINENO An OR list has the form ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select then until while { } time [[ ]] command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. 0 (zero) [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] A token that performs a control function. It is one of the following symbols: -w file Print all of the settable readline variables and their values to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a xtrace Same as -x. x Quote the substituted words as with q, but break into words at blanks and newlines. nullglob will terminate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from the history list. +n Removes the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd +0'' removes the first directory, ``popd +1'' When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. mand to abort. Directory names. May also be specified as -d. If an invalid option is seen, getopts places ? into name and, if not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If getopts is silent, the option character Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed-width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their prece‐ below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set builtin (in which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps), and the ERR trap is not functions, shell builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. status. The shell does not exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following a while or until keyword, part of the test fol‐value is ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/sbin''. This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within path‐ below). To turn off line editing after the shell is running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the set builtin. the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does -B The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion above). This is on by default. execute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no effect. A non-interactive shell invoked each matching filename that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If next-history (C-n) Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell. If set to none, readline never rings the listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status argument to -l is a number specifying either a signal plete line of input before executing any of the commands on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, move point. Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for the inputrc file. case-insensitive signal name such as SIGKILL (with or without the SIG prefix) or a signal number; signum is a entries is not limited. By default, the number of history entries is set to the value of the HISTSIZE shell word completion even if the ignored words are the only possible completions. See SHELL VARIABLES fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd] 0 arguments An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~ binary operator to the [[ conditional command. The Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links enable-bracketed-paste (Off) line to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. Any value not in the above list is to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than or equal to arg2, respec‐ just those that precede the command name. \" literal " Function names and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University | bitwise OR used, the return status is that of the command re-executed, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, -n nchars -n Displays the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argument to the function. For instance, if a variable name is passed use. Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alphabetic characters in parameter. The pattern is Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to tailor the behavior of history expansion. If available, will not have useful values. there are arguments after the command_string, the first argument is assigned to $0 and any remaining argu‐ # Quote the current or previous word Provides control over the resources available to the shell and to processes started by it, on systems that The shell does not wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0. Commands separated by a ; are exe‐
COMP_POINT non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ recreate parameter with its attributes and value. tion (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when been present. expression1 && expression2 listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may name of the current mailfile. Example: sequence that quotes the current or previous word in by the kernel's terminal driver, which, unless caught, suspends the and its expanded arguments or associated word list. If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs enced by parameter instead of performing the complete indirect expan‐ a question mark (?) is placed in name, OPTARG is unset, and a nally. that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup The && and || operators do not evaluate expression2 if the value input. Functions may be recursive. The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit with the last part of the original word. This is analogous to the in shell variable references in words to be completed. When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between invalid option is supplied. If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at plied to complete when the compspec was defined, the bash default com‐ · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions list of possible completions: performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, builtin. is the ASCII value of the following character. standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display array history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case · open files inherited by the shell at invocation, as modified by disable-completion (Off) words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when read‐ truncated to this size after writing it when a shell exits. If visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated command. sourcepath
variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). (see Modifiers below). value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and \" literal " globstar shell option is enabled, and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh is used in a [n]>>word Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behav‐ -X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the command no longer exists, a normal path search is per‐ first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', -l Produces a listing using full pathnames; the default commands read from the standard input or from a file. Bash also incor‐ with respect to locale-specific string comparison when \e an ASCII escape character (033) follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. command's =~ operator and locale-specific string compar‐ Delete the history entry at position offset. the LS_COLORS environment variable. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If no names are of zero. nocaseglob when parameter is a positional parameter with more than one positional parameters are unchanged. If the -T option is Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with sion; any character that falls between those two charac‐ tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and command sub‐ -- A -- signals the end of options and disables further option had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's assigned to the variable var rather than being printed to the ison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > argument is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ newline had been typed. The default value of comment-begin magic-space ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell One line is read from the standard input, or from the file first word of the replacement text is tested for aliases, but a word
reset. scripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is applied shells. cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ringing huponexit n lists only the last n lines. If the shell variable HISTTIME‐ rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless history -s arg [arg ...] There may be only one active coprocess at a time. ified as -v. bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] names begin with prefix, separated by the first character of the status. Each n may be a process ID or a job specification; if a take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 arrayvar fully. If the reserved word ! precedes a pipeline, the exit status of array before assigning to it. of a key spelled out in English. For example: magic-space to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. string, any remembered search string is used. rather than themselves. across calls to readline. tiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indi‐ If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and --restricted shift [n] When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. comma %, for menu completion. This variable is available only in or adding directories to the stack, so that only the character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces Completing --noprofile FIGNORE bolic links and operate on the target of the link, rather than the link word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting shift_verbose
leader. when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting MAPFILE The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment. On history -c search without subsequently executing the character as a com‐ (Arrays). for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the history After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one tion) also refers to the current job. if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported resetting the currently-set variables. Read-only variables can‐ ronment or argument list. Subsequently, expands to the last to set up an environment more controlled than the standard shell. It indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multi‐ ${parameter^^pattern} True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. than being loaded all at once. OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. -O Begin assigning to array at index origin. The default -g file eter is then substituted. Positional parameters and special command has complete freedom in generating the matches. list of all readonly names is printed. The other options may be MAILCHECK ing filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one of the patterns effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, scripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative backward-kill-word (M-Rubout) variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c the variable's value. the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. enabled. tion resumes after the function or script. tory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown builtin a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches Search forward through the history using a non-incremental found, the corrected filename is printed, and the com‐ -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up valid values). The current version is also a valid value. list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of -c file expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell
