info bash -o -
info bash -o -
mark-directories (On) -a All current limits are reported COMP_POINT Remove each name from the list of defined aliases. If -a is supplied, all alias definitions are removed. The return value is true unless a supplied name is not a A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are either integers or single characters, and incr, an optional increment, is an integer. When integers string is used. quently reset. -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. effect of causing pending output and typeahead to be discarded. brace expansion is left unchanged. A { or , may be quoted with a backslash to prevent its being considered part of a brace expression. To avoid conflicts with parameter This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command mode. The value is expanded like a key are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any arguments remaining after option processing are treated as values for the positional parameters and are -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays above). Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). pletion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). Aliases are confusing in some uses. Controls whether readline begins with a set of key bindings similar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or vi. -l List process IDs in addition to the normal information. supplied. If it is set while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command set -o posix had been executed. ARITHMETIC EVALUATION change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output. The return value is true if the directory was success‐ editing-mode (emacs) ing to the names are so marked. The -a option restricts the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both performed. ${parameter%word} Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. disabled A The expansion is a string in the form of an assignment statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will recreate parameter with its attributes and value. -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is redrawn. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. here-document True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not. GNU Bash 4.4 2016 August 26 BASH(1) COMP_WORDBREAKS as described above. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Comple‐ OPTIONS default array. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: Enclosing characters in single quotes preserves the literal value of each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between single quotes, even when pre‐ non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) INVOCATION \n new line 0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise.
BASH_SUBSHELL shell-forward-word Contains the name of a file in the same format as /etc/hosts that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname. The list of possible hostname comple‐ do not remain in effect after the command completes. The return status is the exit status of list. The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). id++ id-- complete-filename (M-/) Numeric Arguments -a aname The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files. If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in file‐ command and its expanded arguments or associated word list. for the portion following the final slash. If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined with the -D option to complete is used as the default. True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even if the ignored words are the only huponexit HISTTIMEFORMAT \C- control prefix nized. Since they do not cause a word break, they must be separated from list by whitespace or another shell metacharacter. -t timeout -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) array subscripted by @ or *, or an associative array name, the results differ as described below. If length is omitted, expands to the substring of the value of The command currently being executed or about to be executed, unless the shell is executing a command as the result of a trap, in which case it is the command exe‐ mode The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may be used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for If no names are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported variables is printed. The -n option causes the export property to be removed setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin. possible-variable-completions (C-x $) hashall Same as -h. -v Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be re-read. $endif and each completion matching filterpat is removed from the list. A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching -N nchars its value is replaced with string. If pattern begins with /, all matches of pattern are replaced with string. Normally only the first match is replaced. If pat‐ If set, a non-interactive shell will not exit if it cannot execute the file specified as an argument to the exec builtin command. An interactive shell does Display version information about the current instance of bash. command [-pVv] command [arg ...] if no commands were executed. kill-region compat42 directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard output was redirected to dirlist.
value may be a decimal number (e.g., 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired compatibility Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. Duplicating File Descriptors patterns in GLOBIGNORE. The dotglob option is disabled when GLOBIGNORE is unset. The pattern matching honors the filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. It is applied to the list of possible comple‐ When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COMMAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any tus is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return status is 1. turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of the shell. The current set of mines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating sequences within pathname expan‐ dump-variables completion-display-width (-1) braces denote optional portions. The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not execfail -w Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents. + - addition, subtraction Read in the contents of the inputrc file, and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found there. sponding list is executed. If the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first yank-last-arg (M-., M-_) pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes execution to continue with the list associated with the next arguments to shell commands and redirections using standard word expansions. The file descriptors are not available histappend with the highest index) is "main". This variable exists only when a shell function is executing. Assignments The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this document. argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid \s the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion following the final slash) that word is replaced by the text of the alias. The characters /, $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argu‐ wait [-n] [n ...] history-preserve-point (Off) mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the setting of the mark-symlinked-directories readline variable. test expr using ASCII ordering. ignored if it is less than 0 or greater than the terminal screen width. A value of 0 will cause matches to be particular file may be specified by separating the filename from the message with a `?'. When used in the This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting. equivalent to let "expression". source filename [arguments] A short script or `recipe' which exercises the bug cutable files. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. default. Any additional arguments following dir are ignored. The variable CDPATH defines the search path for a `~-', the value of the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde Two special argument values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and -2 represents the time the
expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. that of the last command executed in the function body. If if the user so specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. for this instance of bash. The values assigned to the array The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If tional parameters remain unchanged. and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution pathname expansion as described below. Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no COMP_KEY nnn (one to three digits) Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key the primaries described above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. ! expression becomes longer than the screen width rather than wrapping to a wise, the expression is false. Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The -v Display readline variable names and values in such a way sequences: Each time this parameter is referenced, the number of seconds following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a name of the disk file that would be executed if name were speci‐ Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning able array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is sup‐ quotes, it expands to a single word with the value of each end-of-line (C-e) Search backward through the history starting at the current line If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit ing mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file cur‐ dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the is substituted. bash will write the trace output generated when set -x is -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the cur‐ to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on formed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell mark-directories). Referencing an array variable without a subscript is equivalent to ref‐ TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which line that looks like: descriptor n is checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job options for each name or the current completion. The possible currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. which a completion specification (a compspec) has been defined using
-u When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to case. The -1 evaluates to the last positional parameter. It is an expan‐ function is invoked, the COMP_LINE, COMP_POINT, COMP_KEY, and COMP_TYPE mum index of parameter, so negative indices count back from the dard input. history list. bered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the rection operator >| instead of >. -c option specifies quantum. HISTFILE being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is expansion. strings they output. If a numeric argument is supplied, the between the start of the current line and the point. This is a mail!"' execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible value HH (one or two hex digits) number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. comma If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, file as a directory. An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic --init-file file and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being com‐ arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to ters are not echoed. at shell initialization. If bash is invoked with a file of com‐ it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of parameter characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns 124, and of the set builtin command can be used as options when the shell is Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the shell function as its first argument, running status. enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set !string signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be strictly textual. Bash does not apply any syntactic interpretation to For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status application bindings or variable assignments found there. operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ shell environment. When the function is executed, the
expanded. If any words remain after expansion, the first word cuted, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, in $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number. Signal names are generated, directory name completion is is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-com‐ omitted if the word designator begins with a ^, $, *, -, or %. Words \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could noclobber or equal to arg2, respectively. Arg1 and arg2 may be positive the current position in the history list. \T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible ( expr ) When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see HIS‐ simply listed on the terminal. is substituted. 0 arguments for later processing. Names of shell functions. HISTSIZE OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts environment of subsequent commands. exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. ${parameter%%word} command's =~ operator and locale-specific string compar‐ ``fc -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first other‐ ${parameter/pattern/string} played. attribute. However, nameref variables can reference array variables %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. exiting if any jobs are stopped. list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit sta‐ -b Report the status of terminated background jobs immedi‐ no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to a The expansion is a string consisting of flag values rep‐ -s Silent mode. If input is coming from a terminal, charac‐ history substitution will be reloaded into the readline editing buffer string, with backslash-escaped characters replaced as specified by the between the start of the current line and the point. This is a test expr builtin command specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that possible-completions (M-?) this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possi‐ invoked as described above in FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was started perform history expansion by default. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is per‐
Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of parameter. This is the library that handles reading input when using an interac‐ tive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. parameters may not be assigned to in this way. GLOBIGNORE full filename of the command and passed to that command in its environ‐ True if file exists. parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirec‐ determine the status is the last command executed before the -u Disable (unset) each optname. without job control. non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be increased up or adding directories to the stack, so that only the shell is started to inhibit this behavior. enabled. For example, to use the test binary found via the PATH term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific expanded, it must be enclosed in braces (see EXPANSION below). Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or between the start of the current line and the point. This is a The bash executable -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c tion of range expressions, where [a-d] is equivalent to files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the com‐ In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, running Names of running jobs, if job control is active. mailwarn This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands the next pattern list in the statement, if any, and execute any the compspec generates no matches. -w Write the current history list to the history file, over‐ character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of If the first form is used, pushd returns 0 unless the cd to dir Appending Standard Output and Standard Error shell environment. When the function is executed, the with the -c option, then $0 is set to the first argument after r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. of -1 references the last element. $1, $2, ... $n. Options, if specified, have the following ber) and the characters between the single quotes are histverify -r Backslash does not act as an escape character. The back‐ error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard out‐ directory The result of the expansion is subject to word splitting and
