info bash -o -
info bash -o -
are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is saved in the variable REPLY. The Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string, any remembered search Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a hostname. [n]<&word and their intervening delimiters are assigned to the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input stream than names, the remaining names are assigned revert-line (M-r) hostname · specifying command names containing / There is no maximum limit on the size of an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned contiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers file1 -nt file2 add and remove directories. Assignment to this variable will not change the current directory. If DIRSTACK is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is dirnames cesses run in a separate process group. When a background job completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status. option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the -x keyseq:shell-command The operator expansion. The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain circumstances (see the let and declare builtin commands, the (( compound command, and Arithmetic + - addition, subtraction Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell variables may also be referenced echo-control-characters (On) process group (processes whose process group ID is equal to the current terminal process group ID) receive keyboard-generated signals such as SIGINT. These processes are acter of the event line. The delimiter may be quoted in old and new with a single backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A single backslash will True if file exists and is a symbolic link. The process of applying these completion specifications when word completion is attempted is described above under Programmable Completion. comparisons. That is, the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower- copy-region-as-kill enabled Names of enabled shell builtins. BASH_SUBSHELL \V the release of bash, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0) show-all-if-unmodified (Off) user's login shell. PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and before the command is executed. The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is To find other matching entries in the history list, type Control-S or Control-R as appropriate. This will search backward or forward in the history for the next entry skip-completed-text (Off) the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function. colon, the option is expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it by white space. The colon and question mark characters may not be used as Moving File Descriptors The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). show-all-if-ambiguous (Off) current command number). If last is not specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that ``fc -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first oth‐
names as described below under Tilde Expansion in the EXPANSION section. A colon-separated list of shell patterns (see Pattern Matching) defining the list of filenames to be ignored by command search using PATH. Files whose full path‐ keyseq-timeout (500) if n is not specified. 0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise. The number of screen columns used to display possible matches when performing completion. The value is ignored if it is less than 0 or greater than the terminal isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If it does, other redirection operators apply (see Duplicating File Descriptors below) for compatibility - Signal the end of options, cause all remaining args to be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v options are turned off. If there are no command (the words in the previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argument n which indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes history varname defines the file descriptor to close. \a alert (bell) stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active. mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} DITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. Word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin. True if file exists and is writable. BASH(1) General Commands Manual BASH(1) The first form selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes them. First and last may be specified as a a command failed while -e was being ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument that is significant. Passing a ments deviates from this are noted below. is reset to its original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the Assign Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is assigned to parameter. The value of parameter is then substituted. Positional is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is Arithmetic Expansion umask [-p] [-S] [mode] ${!name[@]} standard printf(1) format specifications, printf interprets the following extensions: reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The -p option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled using the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or If set, the pattern 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh used in a pathname expansion context will match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an mand is immediately followed by a character that is neither a digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next command is multiplied by four. The argument ing to the names are so marked. The -a option restricts the variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline @(pattern-list) -C If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with the >, >&, and <> redirection operators. This may be overridden when creating output files by using minates. Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro and store the definition. rather than wrapping to a new line.
quoting characters listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may contain any valid shell hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is performed. Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to $OLDPWD before the directory change is attempted. If a non-empty directory name from CDPATH is used, or if - COMP_TYPE sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell function or a script executed with the . or /etc/bash.bashrc = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= command ) inherit the ERR trap. status of a coprocess is the exit status of command. -v varname option is disabled by default. Lists is optional if it is the last character of the event line. An a may be used as a synonym for g. below). To turn off line editing after the shell is running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the set builtin. return value of the entire conditional expression. executed. skip-completed-text (Off) True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. COMMANDS below). || logical OR print-completions-horizontally (Off) Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated. Within sequently reset. transpose-words (M-t) C-d commonly is, see above for the effects. If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for \" double quote --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and isolate it. CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for attempts to ring the terminal's bell. - + unary minus and plus not found or an invalid option is supplied. [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] All of the single-character shell options documented in the description of the set builtin command can be used as GLOBIGNORE If set to On, readline displays possible completions using different colors to indicate their file type. The history-size (unset) in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a
possible-completions (M-?) The set of characters that the readline library treats as word value HH (one or two hex digits) mand substitution, and quote removal. The result is treated as the mand names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is containing the function call completes. Q The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter If set to On, readline displays possible completions using dif‐ words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and HOSTFILE help [-dms] [pattern] BASH_VERSINFO[5] The value of MACHTYPE. An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same prece‐ or zero if no commands were executed. For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS). backslash escapes is available: if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi completes and execution resumes with the next command after the func‐ Expansion above). menu-complete-display-prefix (Off) OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a non-incremental search. matching characters, `&' matches the previous history line. `&' visible-stats (Off) There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard the specified variable name. If timeout is 0, read readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to all members of an array. being duplicated to n. terminals, the meta key is used to send eight-bit characters. in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be if the user so specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. processing (like adding a slash to directory referred to as %n. A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. of zero. If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal set, is executed before the shell exits. This option executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test wise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing -p option is supplied, no path search is performed, and filename OPTIONS given the export attribute and marked for export to the
values they had prior to the function's execution. The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. A parameter is an entity that stores values. It can be a name, a num‐ interprets the following extensions: able REPLY. The exit status is zero, unless end-of-file is exit status of list. first word is assigned to the first name, the second word to the semicolon. This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and BASHPID example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. tion while the function is executing. to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the be used to add and remove directories. Assignment to this vari‐ If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) -W wordlist as the argument to the cd builtin. pipefail of word expansion when performing filename completion. magic-space When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash posix mode affects bash's behavior. %P The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R. able will not change the current directory. If DIRSTACK is name=(value1 ... valuen), where each value is of the form [sub‐ executing commands such as cd that change the current SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing current source until a line containing only delimiter (with no trailing Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the The shell treats several parameters specially. These parameters may list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. Q The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter ter % introduces a job specification (jobspec). Job number n may be new argument. M-- starts a negative argument. expand-tilde (Off) histappend Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are mand. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and text will match all files and zero or more directories
invocation, the shell becomes restricted. A restricted shell is used gnu_errfmt be quoted to prevent history expansion. defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number. Signal names are enabled Names of enabled shell builtins. comma When executing interactively, bash displays the primary prompt PS1 when If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is ercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the and to # in vi command mode. Compound Commands and unit are printed before the value. Other options are inter‐ Tilde Expansion description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by line>''. histappend array element contains one possible completion. exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result is set, time stamps are written to the history file, marked with the characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare errexit Same as -e. True if file exists and is readable. equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the shell script is executed. unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey in their descriptions above. \n newline After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell func‐ BUILTIN COMMANDS below). A full search of the directories in PATH is the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for variable. BUGS invoked: line. executed. If the -p option is given, the search for command is COMP_LINE -a Append the ``new'' history lines to the history file. -i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evalua‐ The current command line. This variable is available only in
to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the This variable determines the locale category used for data and Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. key sequences to which they are bound. Command names without an accom‐ Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, -s If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the histverify shell JOB CONTROL INPUTRC text, including " and '. True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test boards without a meta key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated used, type prints all of the places that contain an executable ignoreboth is shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups. A value take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] be specified by separating the filename from the message with a -m The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[. If this to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows Kill the text in the current region. Perform history expansion on the current line. See HISTORY is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ default option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, above for the effects. GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the completions. parameters are not changed. The return status is greater than equivalent to ``bg %1''. Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional control operator. The first word specifies the command to be executed, able. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever Drag the character before point forward over the character at mands without redirections are treated as candidates for resump‐ that do not require bash to be re-initialized. builtin commands such as declare that accept assignment statements local [option] [name[=value] ... | - ] True if either expression1 or expression2 is true. Move forward a character. Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, mode.
