info bash -o -
info bash -o -
All of the single-character shell options documented in the description of the set builtin command can be used as options when the shell is invoked. In addition, bash $else Commands in this branch of the $if directive are executed if the test fails. Kill the text in the current region. If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.2 with respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > If a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard error, each preceded by a number. If which indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history comment character causes history Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings and variable settings to be per‐ ${parameter:-word} not perform history expansion by default. After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one or more of the following modifiers, each preceded by a `:'. than zero result in every command being saved on the history list (there is no limit). The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any startup files. comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching pattern; otherwise help for all the Arrays are assigned to using compound assignments of the form name=(value1 ... valuen), where each value is of the form [subscript]=string. Indexed array assignments do used. If the -h option is given, each jobspec is not removed from the table, but is marked so that SIGHUP is not sent to the job if the shell receives a SIGHUP. If Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes with backslashes. value less than or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline will wait until another key is pressed to decide which key sequence to complete. Coprocesses digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. If n is not specified, -k All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not just those that precede the command name. BASH Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of bash. waiting for an asynchronous command via the wait builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an If set to On, completed directory names have a slash appended. -R varname \D{format} shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for writing on file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 -f Use function names only. If set to On, a character denoting a file's type as reported by stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible completions. globasciiranges Patterns to be brace expanded take the form of an optional preamble, followed by either a series of comma-separated strings or a sequence expression between a pair of sourcepath options are supplied, each name refers to a variable; if there is no variable by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each unset variable or function is \" double quote string1 < string2 -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. through the list of possible completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input. the search for command is performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v option is sup‐
emacs(1), vi(1) The current command line. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Program‐ special characters that are decoded as follows: Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. Bash attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text begins with $), username (if the text exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form considered a tilde-prefix. If none of the characters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as a possible login Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to Appending Redirected Output Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE -- backward-delete-char (Rubout) its attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified by the nameref variable's The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resultant word is expanded. The possible completions are the The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to indexed arrays are interpreted as +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero. The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in upcoming versions of bash. If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to perform hostname completion when a word containing a @ is being completed (see Completing under Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be omitted if string is followed immedi‐ bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case command, select command, or arithmetic for command, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the · options enabled by shopt Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes named by pid or jobspec. sigspec is either a case-insensitive signal name such as SIGKILL (with or with‐ is excluded from the list of matched filenames. A sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains tildes). An OR list has the form string. When a quoted null argument appears as part of a word whose expansion is non-null, the null argument is removed. That is, the word -d'' becomes -d after word PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is readonly. This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion cause the matches to be listed imme‐ must be quoted to disable normal history expansion. onecmd Same as -t. If the huponexit shell option has been set with shopt, bash sends a SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. than the number of enclosing loops, the last enclosing loop (the ``top-level'' loop) is resumed. The return value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1. Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, insert the nth word from the previous compat42 Without options, displays the list of currently remembered directories. The default display is on a single line with directory names separated by spaces. Directo‐ contain a slash, filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing filename. The file searched for in PATH need not be executable. When bash is not in progcomp instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and emacs-ctlx keymaps only if readline is starting out in emacs mode. `command` and their intervening delimiters are assigned to the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input stream than names, the remaining names are assigned
(see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done -O file ing with zero) is at the top. Arithmetic expansion allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression and the substitution of the result. The for‐ more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ braceexpand restored to their original values when the function returns. With no operands, local writes a list of local not be quoted; however, any dollar signs appearing in filenames will not be quoted, either. This is argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file. used, writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form is used, the file passed as an argument BASHPID BASH_ALIASES The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the arguments. If the format requires more arguments than True if file exists and is a block special file. names without an accompanying key sequence are unbound by default. In the following descriptions, point refers to example, to use the test binary found via the PATH instead of the shell builtin version, run ``enable -n An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individual words in the current command line. The line The filter is a pattern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced with the text of the word -u file This type of redirection instructs the shell to read input from the current source until a line containing only HISTIGNORE to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reini‐ play the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified by the additional options. If by name's value. The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables. option is disabled by default. builtin Names of shell builtin commands. May also be specified as -b. When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that The -f option will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option inhibits the display of function True if file exists and has been modified since it was last read. %(datefmt)T Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification display-shell-version (C-x C-v) When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted (posix mode). See SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how posix mode affects bash's empty environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command. /etc/bash.bash.logout if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word of the simple command. the -f option can be used to override this and force the suspension. The return status is 0 unless the shell Kill backward to the beginning of the line. show-mode-in-prompt (Off) test''. The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from shared object filename, on systems that
greater than the greatest positional parameter, so an offset of getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more If set, the pattern 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh used in a pathname expansion con‐ shell script is executed. The rules concerning the definition and use of aliases are somewhat words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the all cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT. If job control is in effect, bash preted as follows: Remove any current binding for keyseq. function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a sary. When characters are supplied, the expression expands to each Aliases are confusing in some uses. commands to save in a history list. The text of the last HISTSIZE com‐ If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion arrays. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If is an integer. When integers are supplied, the expression expands to unless the shell is executing a command as the result of a trap, The return value is true if the directory was successfully expression. The element with index n is the portion of the reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would List the possible completions of the text before point, treating metacharacter through the history as necessary. This is an incremental command, select command, or arithmetic for command, dis‐ The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and deleted using the -f option to the unset builtin. Note that shell line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard expansion of word to be opened for writing on file descriptor n, or the character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on if the shell is interactive. This option is on by default if conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index second exit is attempted without an intervening command input line, rather than newline. beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignor‐ treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their read‐ with respect to locale-specific string comparison when rences.
${!prefix*} sequences: BUGS ground in the current shell environment. Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is asked whether or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are options are turned off. If there are no args, the posi‐ sist of a number without a leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. When a positional parameter consisting of more than a single digit is screen. available for subsequent recall. standard output is performed after any redirections specified by the tional parameters remain unchanged. options should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that change the current directory. tially supplied does not exist. words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment parentheses to force it into a subshell, which may be stopped as a executable bit set, but are not executable files. The pattern (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). bash. Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initial‐ options under the description of the -o option to the set the symbolic character names are not recognized. True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. ``.'' character is not treated specially. See the description of Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the INPUTRC the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each ${parameter^pattern} dence is used when there are five or more arguments. long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS white‐ exits, rather than overwriting the file. COLUMNS options for each name or the current completion. The possible If parameter is @, the result is length positional parameters and performing any specified redirections. The return status is files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, ters is to be used. using the current locale. backward-word (M-b) vi-style line editing interface is also available. Line editing can be pipefail not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS,
wise. *, the case modification operation is applied to each member of quotes (see PARAMETERS below). operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to upper‐ [...] Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be appended to the tions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde receipt of a SIGWINCH. other history lines. Search backward through the history for the string of characters The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, it as a command name. without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Any part of the progcomp so that typing ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is histchars after expansion and to split lines into words with the read characters must be quoted if they are to be matched literally. Execute the specified shell builtin, passing it arguments, and extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following executes a compound command with a new set of positional parameters. to the enable builtin command set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences HISTIGNORE is created. The arguments become the arguments to command. If user mail files that it uses is system dependent (e.g., nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the binding Readline key binding names. tion as described above under Completing is performed. Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name tus is zero if all optnames are enabled; non-zero other‐ user is an integer. When integers are supplied, the expression expands to nnn (zero to three octal digits) -r Display only running jobs. preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be ated from the keyboard. tion, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of -p Perform history substitution on the following args and The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that If an invalid option is seen, getopts places ? into name and, if sequence of IFS whitespace characters is also treated as a delimiter. ties, IEEE -- the final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of let arg [arg ...] The following conditions are applied in the order listed.
The current command line. This variable is available only in relative to the current line from the history for editing. Any results of the other actions. it, readline echoes a character corresponding to a signal gener‐ tional parameters when filename is executed. Otherwise the set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than name is not found or an invalid option is supplied. or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is --restricted words between the [[ and ]]; tilde expansion, parameter and for correction. The -p option to the history builtin command may be value of the last (rightmost) command to exit numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before The positional parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 .... If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the MAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell ments in the array. If the subscript used to reference an element of define a function using ``-f foo=bar'', an attempt is made to of the HISTCONTROL variable. If the line is a modified history not read within timeout seconds. timeout may be a deci‐ tom-most element (the one with the highest index) is "main". disable-completion (Off) emacs Use an emacs-style command line editing inter‐ set builtin. an option other than -p or -r is supplied without a name argu‐ dirs [-clpv] [+n] [-n] literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of Redirecting Standard Output and Standard Error Read in the contents of the inputrc file, and incorporate any reverse-search-history (C-r) the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Search backward through the history starting at the current line FUNCTIONS jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If any jobs number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. $ Expands to the process ID of the shell. In a () subshell, it comments. The interactive_comments option is on by default in interac‐ fully. 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an matches. until list-1; do list-2; done mand names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the loop state when a shell function is executed (this vi.
