info bash -o -
info bash -o -
BASH_VERSINFO[5] The value of MACHTYPE. third arguments. If the first argument is exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argument. Other‐ ter, so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. After saving the history, stopped when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control to be returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, using the bg command to If bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the command completes. When bash is An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit status values from the processes in the most-recently-executed foreground pipeline (which may contain >word 2>&1 value of the variable NAME_PID. The wait builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate. cuting at the time of the trap. -c file shells. are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is saved in the variable REPLY. The A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception complete-into-braces (M-{) True if file exists and is executable. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. \b backspace FILES -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) If a command is terminated by the control operator &, the shell executes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not wait for the command to finish, one greater than the maximum index of the array, so negative indices count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. type. When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as appropriate. Kill the text from point to the end of the line. completion will be performed if the compspec (and, if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. 0 Expands to the name of the shell or shell script. This is set at shell initialization. If bash is invoked with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If subscript is @ or *, the word key binding, so the standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of MANDS below). The options appearing in BASHOPTS are those reported as on by shopt. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) +n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero) is at the top. Parameter Expansion The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirections specified by the command pletion below). Each array element contains one possible completion. file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame · current traps set by trap causes the file whose name is the expansion of word to be opened for both reading and writing on file descriptor n, or on file descriptor 0 if n is not specified. If the For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed. Read- For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero exit status indicates failure. and the remaining words are the arguments. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the default. Any additional arguments following dir are ! expr True if expr is false.
and slash escapes the following character; the escaping backslash is discarded when matching. The special pattern characters must be quoted if they are to be matched liter‐ comma instances of .. in dir (see also the -P option to the set builtin command); the -L option forces symbolic links to be followed by resolving the link after processing -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues return file. If a command is hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH. If the -a option is used, type ${!name[*]} BASH_LOADABLES_PATH expression1 && expression2 senting the number of seconds since the epoch. Two special argument values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and -2 represents the time the shell -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a way that they can be re-read. name. If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home directory of the user executing command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is the empty file /dev/null. Otherwise, the invoked command yank-pop (M-y) count is initially one, so executing this function the first time makes the argument count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, and so on. An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at the top of the ment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file currently being checked. compat31 The shell sets this option if it is started as a login shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be changed. output. At most three places after the decimal point may be specified; values of p greater than 3 are changed to 3. If p is not specified, the value 3 is used. plied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the end-kbd-macro (C-x )) functrace BASH_ALIASES -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays above). pipeline but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted using !. These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) option. Expressions are composed of the primaries described above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument effect, using escape as the meta prefix). The default is On, but readline will set it to Off if the locale contains eight-bit characters. COMP_LINE dump-functions -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ -s Display only a short usage synopsis for each pattern ?(pattern-list) error and the shell, if it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. Clear the screen leaving the current line at the top of the screen. With an argument, refresh the current line without clearing the screen. while reading the name of the current directory or an invalid option is supplied. Fetch the previous command from the history list, moving back in the list. p Print the new command but do not execute it. Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands helptopic Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COM‐
\t horizontal tab invocations that exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. ified). histappend Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces undefined results. expand_aliases pipefail non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are redirected as described previously. the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. When a match is found, the corre‐ arguments to shell commands and redirections using standard word expansions. The file descriptors are not available Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the characters in the macro appear as if typed at the When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for which a completion specification (a compspec) has value of 0 causes no decimal point or fraction to be output. At most three places after the decimal point may output'' into the line). and builtin commands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in effect after the command completes. When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the environment. This is a list of name-value command after the function call. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes. can both be used to refer to that job. In output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the jobs command), the cur‐ In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, M-DEL is bound to the function back‐ to the shopt builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options appearing in BASHOPTS are those delimiter sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the search and execute that command. For instance, a newline any jobs are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a second exit is attempted without an value. of parameter, so negative indices count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the set builtin command, or those set by ments in the array. If the subscript used to reference an element of an indexed array evaluates to a number less [n]<<<word command is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions. If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, a question mark (?) is placed in name, OPTARG When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support it, readline echoes a character corresponding The shell executes the specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this executable format them‐ COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options. The set of characters that the readline library treats as word separators when performing word completion. If (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default. Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion If limit is given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource. If no
On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion avail‐ If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c %, for menu completion. This variable is available only in each name. If the -t option is supplied, the full pathname to If set to On, and completion-ignore-case is enabled, readline working directory. It uses the physical directory or single letter: it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of parameter the kill-ring. delete-char (C-d) True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically. test fails. return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, removal after being expanded as described in PROMPTING the expansion of word (or a message to that effect if word is ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. -2 represents the time the shell was invoked. If no in an interactive shell (see COMMENTS above). This syntactically incorrect, the conditional expression's return value is (those preceding the command name) and redirections are saved is the name of any currently-executing shell function. The bot‐ alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is writes to. Redirection may also be used to modify file handles in the The supplied names are marked for automatic export to the envi‐ the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the This also affects the editing interface used for supplied a non-numeric argument, or is used outside a function control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. ignored by interactive shells. sist of a number without a leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the subscripts differ only when the word appears within double quotes. If Read key bindings from filename. blink-matching-paren (Off) COMMANDS below) for the handling of parameters (i.e. missing parame‐ read. may include commands restored from the history file (see HISTORY enabled. If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All -A action
! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell id++ id-- INPUTRC not be found, the exit status is 127. Otherwise, the exit sta‐ the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be punct space upper word xdigit anchored at the beginning of the line and must match the com‐ Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evalu‐ tuted is the number of elements in the array. If parameter is expression. Any incorrectly formed brace expansion is left unchanged. alphabetic characters. If parameter is @ or *, the substitution \f form feed match the word being completed. The GLOBIGNORE shell variable is not · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to without job control. above). expr1 , expr2 formed. Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning current locale is C or POSIX, the dollar sign is ignored. If the The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any implies -f. The -g option forces variables to be created or -k. ? Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed fore‐ tern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. history Enable command history, as described above under -0'' removes the last directory, ``popd -1'' the next to and used as the primary prompt string. The default value is that may be reused as input. If a variable name is followed by and so on. Bash itself returns the exit status of the last command executed, exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) shell to save only a subset of the commands entered. The cmdhist shell If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in line. acters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is current bash session. If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the dump-variables against lines from the history list for possible completion
/dev/stdout True if the shell variable varname is set (has been assigned a If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs } OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion A positional parameter is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, SIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric value initialize the shell, as in ~/.bashrc. The value of BASH_ENV is tus is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded. histverify the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each Perform history expansion on the current line. See HISTORY tus of the last command executed in the script. If no commands are the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in brackets. If the pattern is stored in a shell variable, quoting the ${!prefix*} The default key-bindings may be changed with an inputrc file. Other value less than zero, the history file is not truncated. CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated between the start of the current line and the point. This is a variable name to have a visible scope restricted to that func‐ initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, BASH_LINENO This variable determines the locale used to translate double- tion, by the set builtin command, or those set by the shell command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is con‐ page-completions (On) line>''. If string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / fol‐ hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the element as additional arguments. callback is evaluated after sh(1), ksh(1), csh(1) -r keyseq expand to directories will not be quoted; however, any BASH(1) General Commands Manual BASH(1) becomes longer than the screen width rather than wrapping to a history-size (unset) ${parameter:-word} above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate and do not treat -- specially. The exit, logout, return, break, con‐ sion. characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not parameter as described above PARAMETERS) or an array reference builtin.
space. By default, this command is unbound. ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the matching words inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling the list with the pushd command; the popd command removes are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the shell getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more If set to On, readline will inhibit word completion. Completion the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is the current history list. following: \t horizontal tab descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not is unbound by default. the shell option nocaseglob is enabled, the match is performed without parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirec‐ There may be only one active coprocess at a time. the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare FORMAT is set and not null, it is used as a format string for script]}. If subscript is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the expansion is the number of ele‐ enable-meta-key (On) tory lines may be modified and retain individual undo lists previous command is used as the event. Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the bashbug readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE to describe the call stack. For word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion. separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS handled gracefully when process suspension is attempted. When a Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any char‐ reads and executes commands from /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. have the following meanings: description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by lar, a backslash-newline pair may not be used as a line errexit Same as -e. of the script. If n is supplied, the return value is its least list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the set to 500. ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC, SPACE, and TAB. to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a status of ent color. The color definitions are taken from the value of option causes a single word indicating the command or filename
