info bash -o -
info bash -o -
extglob If set, the extended pattern matching features described above under Pathname Expansion are enabled. If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even if the ignored words are the only --verbose If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname expansion (see Pathname Expansion above). FUNCNEST In the context where an assignment statement is assigning a value to a shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to or add to the variable's pre‐ bfox@gnu.org The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no characters on the line, and point is at the yank-pop (M-y) A readonly array variable whose members hold version information for this instance of bash. The values assigned to the array members are as follows: Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a command's description may be separated from the rest of the command by one or more newlines, and may is the result of quote removal on word, and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or end of the line (like delete-char). If at the end of the line, behaves identically to possi‐ True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name reference. and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each member of the LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column length for printing selection lists. Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument that is significant. Passing a Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes with backslashes. ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select then until while { } time [[ ]] syntax. The value of a variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer attribute using declare 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions above. MANDS below). comparison Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) and COMP_CWORD variables are also set. When the function or command is invoked, the first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are being completed, the export [-fn] [name[=word]] ... moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified. bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command Word Designators character-search (C-]) This is another way to specify an argument. If this command is followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus sign, those digits define the argu‐ %(datefmt)T -R varname &>>word Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. while list-1; do list-2; done PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for commands (see COMMAND EXECUTION below). A zero-length (null) There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions of sh, mostly because of the POSIX specification. exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) n The nth word. It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the values. ${!name[@]} and ${!name[*]} expand to the indices assigned in array variable name. The
${!prefix@} alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print punct space upper word xdigit huponexit Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with the exceptions that +a may not be used to destroy an array variable and +r will not remove the read‐ emacs(1), vi(1) the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. ``<space><tab><newline>''. TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select command terminates if input does not arrive after previous-history (C-p) command name, the list of commands associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to cal to the while command, except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The exit status otherwise the return status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". tus is 0 unless local is used outside a function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly variable. quent references is the number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ character. When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option · using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell builtins \r carriage return word, function, builtin, or file if name is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, then nothing is is used similarly to duplicate output file descriptors. If n is not specified, the standard output (file descriptor 1) is used. If the digits in word do not specify a In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to run the macro expressed on the reasons. \\ backslash or double quote, the value is the ASCII value of the following character. DIRSTACK A shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, stores a series of commands for later execution. When the name of a shell function is used as a simple $include /etc/inputrc the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) · adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options to the enable builtin command on the first line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the command arguments, if any. BASH_REMATCH. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index n is ${parameter} complete-hostname (M-@) FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of bash. tus of the last command executed. match-hidden-files (On) have no values, are removed. If a parameter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument results and is retained and passed to a command as an empty · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions specified by redirections to the command For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. If the -v option is given, each name refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed. Read- True if either expression1 or expression2 is true.
If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed is set to the real user id. If the -p option is supplied at invocation, the startup behavior is the same, but the nested. Substring Expansion. Expands to up to length characters of the value of parameter starting at the character BASH_COMMAND ment passed to command. This is what login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with an This pattern is used to generate a list of matching filenames for possible completions. expand_aliases e Remove all but the trailing suffix. those instead. >word 2>&1 A non-quoted backslash (\) is the escape character. It preserves the literal value of the next character that fol‐ This variable determines the locale category used for data and time formatting. from the list of matches. Commands for Moving show-all-if-ambiguous (Off) Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possi‐ disable special treatment for special characters, to prevent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to ${!prefix@} initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus any shell. checkwinsize -a aname shell-forward-word If set, range expressions used in pattern matching bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) compat41 pushd [-n] [dir] set variable-name value Bash performs the expansion by executing command in a subshell environment and replacing the command substitution ``> ''. preamble, followed by either a series of comma-separated strings or a sequence expression between a pair of braces, dard input (file descriptor 0) is used. beginning-of-line (C-a) the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does BASH_ARGC in the current shell execution environment. The following redirection operators may precede or appear anywhere the command is not executed. If the shell option nocaseglob is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the Moving File Descriptors Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off (without regard to case). Unrecognized variable errexit Same as -e. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the
the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the Variables above). -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a end-of-file (usually C-d) not previously active) editing settings. pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a matches (==) or does not match (!=) the pattern, and 1 otherwise. Any default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit no characters are required to isolate it. (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an COMMANDS for a description of the various compatibility levels Array variable names. When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. Search forward through the history using a non-incremental executed. test and [ builtin commands to test file attributes and perform string for this instance of bash. The values assigned to the array Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are (if the text begins with @), or command (including aliases and The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from unset. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell -p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and When a compspec indicates that directory name completion is desired, copy-backward-word mines it is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands return status is always true unless an invalid option is encoun‐ dirspell -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. ated from the keyboard. argument, save the deleted text on the kill ring. kill-line (C-k) shorthand for re-running the previous command entered, substi‐ easy re-editing of multi-line commands. -V List current readline variable names and values. ior. The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the ${!prefix*} setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐
ponent in a cd command will be corrected. The errors redirected as described previously. The effect is as if the shell command no args, or only null arguments, eval returns 0. If readline is being used to read the line, text is input. This option allows the positional parameters to be omitted if the word designator begins with a ^, $, *, -, or %. Words When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support extdebug used for pathname expansion, the character ``.'' at the start of a versions of sh. sh does not treat opening or closing braces specially editing state. hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits) *, the case modification operation is applied to each member of be quoted to prevent history expansion. If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the startup /etc/bash.bashrc and the personal initialization file ~/.bashrc a subshell). is, it is removed from the input stream and effectively ignored). allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin the last command executed within the script as the exit status differs from $$ under certain circumstances, such as subshells name=value. revert-all-at-newline (Off) \v vertical tab -c file zero) is at the top. value of PATH indicates the current directory. A null directory inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the Positional Parameters True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 expansion of parameters that have no values, are removed. If a parame‐ lowed by digits, executing universal-argument again ends the RETURN traps (see the description of the trap builtin under SHELL command name. Command completion attempts to match the text matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. with the original command and the original command's arguments as its ls 2>&1 > dirlist each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters slashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is ${parameter}
history for the next entry matching the search string typed so far. -b The maximum socket buffer size pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ ${parameter,pattern} unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell func‐ RESTRICTED SHELL unset. n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be gener‐ pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file form of an optional preamble, followed by either a series of comma-sep‐ True if file exists and is a directory. fer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the /dev/udp/host/port The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behav‐ text, including " and '. listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or pletions as part of programmable completion. literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of specified. If the file does not exist it is created. will display the attributes and values of all variables having fied, both the soft and hard limits are set. The value of limit value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job. Tell readline that the compspec generates file‐ new value is retained when source completes. The return status shows only those options which are set or unset, respectively. file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the Special Parameters removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to if the compspec generates no matches. \t horizontal tab Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Non-interactive shells do not CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated mable Completion. \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would quently reset. bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] may be any command listed under Compound Commands above, with
filenames ``.'' and ``..'' are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set --norc Do not read and execute the system wide initialization file and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored ronment equivalent to command substitution. It should print a list of if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. tive shells. loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of ning part of the original word, and the expansion of the last using the bg command to continue it in the background, the fg command Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard of a key spelled out in English. For example: enable the globasciiranges shell option. A - may be function and its caller. tildes). pletion specifications. The -D option indicates that the After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans them. First and last may be specified as a string (to locate accept-line (Newline, Return) names, so it can perform any filename-specific exit if exec fails. On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the vari‐ shell-expand-line (M-C-e) the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cur‐ the value of HISTFILE is used. Options, if supplied, have the debugger profile before the shell starts, identical to active login shell exits. does not. the list. mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). the history list. Numeric values less than zero result in every either integers or single characters, and incr, an optional increment, Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchro‐ 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an checkhash insert-last-argument (M-., M-_) A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A and a command returns a failure status. If a compound A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a histreedit sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an dard input.
