info bash -o -
info bash -o -
= *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= group Group names. May also be specified as -g. noexec Same as -n. If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current com‐ that have the executable bit set, but are not executable files. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. each is set. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options have the following meanings: !?string[?] HISTTIMEFORMAT do not remain in effect after the command completes. The return status is the exit status of list. capitalize-word (M-c) HISTSIZE When executing interactively, bash displays the primary prompt PS1 when it is ready to read a command, and the secondary prompt PS2 when it needs more input to complete a command1 || command2 The positional parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 .... Parameters represented by the numbers $# down to $#-n+1 are unset. n must be a non-negative number alphabetic characters. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. Bracket expressions in regular expressions must be variable will be unset. A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments followed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a control operator. The first word menu-complete-backward Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables. Any variable may be used as an indexed array; the declare builtin will explicitly declare an array. || logical OR An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). type [-aftpP] name [name ...] properties, even if it is subsequently reset. varname defines the file descriptor to close. attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero status. C-Meta-u: universal-argument filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument zero. \A the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format instead of treating each character as if it had been read from the keyboard. This can prevent pasted characters from being interpreted as editing commands. A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -s option to the shopt builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ which line from the history list to use during substitution. The second is to select portions of that line for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. mailwarn expr1 -a expr2 Resume each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. bg SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). input-meta (Off) status of the last command executed in the body. (See FUNCTIONS below.) COMP_KEY When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT is caught and handled (so that the
Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If no names are given then display the values of variables. The -p option will display the attributes and values of emacs-mode-string (@) { list; } Readline Initialization The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The history builtin may be used to dis‐ The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an ini‐ acter of the event line. The delimiter may be quoted in old and new with a single backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A single backslash will enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. M-C-x means ESC-Control-x, or press the Escape key then hold the Control key while pressing the x key.) history -s arg [arg ...] notify Same as -b. [n]<<<word vent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the -o option to the set builtin command. With no options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or not alias has been defined. received the interrupt; previous versions continue with the next command in the list. { && logical AND colored-completion-prefix (Off) Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and return the exit status of the last command executed from filename. If filename does not transpose-chars (C-t) Read key bindings from filename. -O file ters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of com‐ If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control characters treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their readline equivalents. revert-all-at-newline (Off) True if file exists and is a character special file. setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin. True if file exists. HISTORY following the cursor are not duplicated. FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked. -u When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case characters are converted to upper-case. The lower-case attribute is disabled. If no names are supplied, the line read is assigned to the variable REPLY. The exit status is zero, unless end-of-file is encountered, read times out (in which case Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop. If n is specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of enclosing loops, all varname defines the file descriptor to close.
performing filename completion. If set to Off, the leading `.' must be supplied by the user in the filename correction is found, the corrected filename is printed, and the command proceeds. This option is only suffix is appended to each possible completion after all other options have been applied. -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset. Otherwise, the posi‐ INPUTRC 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh exponentiation the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of signal to be recognized; if a character is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have an argument, which when the word appears within double quotes. If the word is double-quoted, ${name[*]} expands to a single word with by name's value. The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables. command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. shell prints an error message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the current version. The point. This is a non-incremental search. sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains tildes). result of a trap, in which case it is the command executing at the time of the trap. $(command) form, all characters between the parentheses make up the command; none are treated specially. If set to On, readline will undo all changes to history lines before returning when accept-line is executed. have no effect. If GROUPS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. if they had been mapped to self-insert. If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error. yank (C-y) export [-fn] [name[=word]] ... possible completions don't share a common prefix) cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ring‐ supplied, the parentheses are optional. The body of the function is the compound command compound-command caller [expr] Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new top of the stack the -n Displays the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) continuation. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: Readline Conditional Constructs ters defining a new search string, any remembered search string is used. which uses the readline library starts up, the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables are according to the rules described below under Pattern Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = For example, placing Same as -B. inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argument. (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. SEE ALSO for editing. Any argument is ignored. -p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell func‐ compat31 History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into words. It dirspell shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups. A value of erasedups causes all previous lines matching the current A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count Set to an integer value corresponding to the type of completion attempted that caused a completion function to chown root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}} ment of this list in turn, and list is executed each time. If the in word is omitted, the for command exe‐
ment is one of the unary conditional operators listed considered quoted. This is the behavior of posix mode When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following If set to On, and completion-ignore-case is enabled, readline than 3 are changed to 3. If p is not specified, the value 3 is no decimal point or fraction to be output. At most three places perform hostname completion when a word containing a @ is interpreted as an offset in characters from the end of the ing the pattern will be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is If readline is being used to read the line, text is tion, and arithmetic expansion that did not occur within double quotes -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error the argument n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the MANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ The order of expansions is: brace expansion; tilde expansion, parameter The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names Incremental searches begin before the user has finished typing the directories and subdirectories. If followed by a /, two The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard \a alert (bell) Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is matches. 1 argument ber, or one of the special characters listed below under Special Param‐ BASH_VERSINFO BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word beginning with # causes that word and COMP_CWORD able HISTFILE (default ~/.bash_history). The file named by the value The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to direc‐ taken. sal-argument. control operator line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the standard output. -a Each variable or function that is created or modified is ber of possible completions generated by the possible-comple‐ The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). name reference will be established for each word in the list, in turn, ters encountered in the input are not treated specially Of the two forms, the first is preferred. This is semantically equiva‐ tion associated with each history entry is written to the his‐
-v The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the unix-word-rubout (C-w) alias Alias names. May also be specified as -a. below, to generate the matches. It must put the possible completions \t horizontal tab Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of ters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts startup files. This variable is read-only. cmdhist If set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple- specified by redirections to the command completion is attempted on an empty line. True if file exists and has been modified since it was last -u The maximum number of processes available to a single -l List process IDs in addition to the normal information. value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last] -s If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after echo-control-characters (On) revert-all-at-newline (Off) parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special names generated need not exist. Patterns to be brace expanded take the set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than executed by the trap handler before return was invoked. If lar, a backslash-newline pair may not be used as a line The format of here-documents is: to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if tially supplied does not exist. Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce by the shell and its children. The TIMEFORMAT variable may be used to fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parame‐ affect the behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full path‐ variable pre-increment and pre-decrement the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and under‐ complete -pr [-DE] [name ...] shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is loaded mand. If this variable has not been given a value, the charac‐ Display version information about the current instance of bash. OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a
index is 0. startup files. This variable is read-only. The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. of HISTFILE is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than the options. pat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C command] ary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. the shell is interactive. The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is The set of characters that the readline library treats as word E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being com‐ the nameref variable will be unset. is subsequently reset. If set at shell invocation, arrange to execute the erwise it will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file \T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format print-completions-horizontally (Off) Modify completion options for each name according to the mand. Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the option indicates that the remaining options and actions should line, this transposes the last two words on the line. scrolling the input horizontally on a single screen line when it beginning or end serves to delimit words. If IFS has a value other arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the greater than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the uppercase Shell functions are declared as follows: True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 expanded, it must be enclosed in braces (see EXPANSION below). Negative arguments have no effect. The while command continuously executes the list list-2 as long When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores and source file corresponding to that position in the current ing arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any. A token that performs a control function. It is one of the fol‐ history-and-alias-expand-line special characters that are decoded as follows: the LS_COLORS environment variable. shopt_option is one of the shell options accepted by the a terminal control sequence into the mode string. directory. With no arguments, pushd exchanges the top two entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets cannot be read. The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command, ment. played, even if the first character of optstring is not a colon.
rather than using semicolon separators where possible. point, moving point forward as well. If point is at the end of Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not sup‐ processing. Any arguments after the -- are treated as file‐ is the name of any currently-executing shell function. The bot‐ descriptor is assigned to NAME[0]. The standard input of command is The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus above under Pathname Expansion are enabled. shell environment. When the function is executed, the !. These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit (-e) BASH_ARGV driver and bash. process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Condi‐ command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is con‐ A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form sion. FUNCTIONS When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using COMP_WORDS attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has options under the description of the -o option to the set listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status argument to quotes. This option is enabled by default. If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and name=(value1 ... valuen), where each value is of the form [sub‐ the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a vari‐ possible-completions (M-?) used to escape a newline, if necessary. unless a syntax error occurs, in which case it exits with a non-zero the list. COMMANDS for a description of the various compatibility levels used as a command name. If the -t option is used, type prints a If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is dupli‐ itself. If set, and readline is being used, the results of his‐ string1 < string2 character found. the beginning of the value of parameter, then the result of the displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options is supplied, the functions corresponding to the names are so from keyname above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence may
