info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command, unless the pipefail option is enabled. If pipefail is enabled, the pipeline's return status is the bfox@gnu.org ALIASES brace expansion is left unchanged. A { or , may be quoted with a backslash to prevent its being considered part of a brace expression. To avoid conflicts with parameter expansion. start-kbd-macro (C-x () match-hidden-files (On) add and remove directories. Assignment to this variable will not change the current directory. If DIRSTACK is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is -n Display information only about jobs that have changed status since the user was last notified of their status. the commands entered. The cmdhist shell option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semi‐ /etc/profile If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is used as an offset in characters from the end of the value of parameter. If length evaluates to a number Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to chet.ramey@case.edu. The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed without modification. When set to a value greater than zero, com‐ otherwise the return status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (portable object) file format. list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known as a group command. The return status This creates a coprocess named NAME. If NAME is not supplied, the default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case command, select command, or arithmetic for command, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of all readonly names is printed. The other sent to the standard error. Note that setting BASH_XTRACEFD to 2 (the standard error file descriptor) and then unsetting it will result in the standard error being If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ conditional command's =~ operator and locale-specific Print all of the settable readline variables and their values to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a completion will be performed if the compspec (and, if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ If readline is being used to read the line, text is placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the remaining options should apply to ``empty'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as the first word of a simple command. The shell maintains a list of aliases that may be set and unset The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal. Pathname expansion readable. It will not do this if invoked as sh. The --norc option may be used to inhibit this behavior, and the --rcfile option may be used to force another file to be If set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see Pathname Expansion above) to expand to a null string, rather than themselves. Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes (FIFOs) or the /dev/fd method of naming open files. file1 -ef file2 The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or an error occurred. \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the positional parameters during its string-valued variable, value is expanded and appended to the variable's value. Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with the same collation weight (as defined by the BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). \h the hostname up to the first `.' A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma or a valid sequence expression. Any incorrectly formed of the executing shell. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file descriptor is assigned to
is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is Commands for Changing Text $if Bash onecmd Same as -t. matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. alias-expand-line If set, the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion above) are enabled. This option is enabled by default. Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input connected to a network connection, as when executed by the remote shell daemon, usually rshd, or the To facilitate the implementation of the user interface to job control, the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process group ID. Members of this one that exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the shell is started to inhibit this behavior. ~/.bashrc following history entry. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset && logical AND possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to indexed arrays are interpreted as assignment -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. running Names of running jobs, if job control is active. Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. -b file If either -s or -u is used with no optname arguments, shopt shows only those options which are set or unset, respectively. Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options right hand side (that is, to insert the text ``> output'' into the line). is supplied, only disabled builtins are printed. If -a is supplied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indication of whether or not each is enabled. Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. string-valued variable, value is expanded and appended to the variable's value. on the first line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the command arguments, if any. a command failed while -e was being ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the ${parameter} If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command !string Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not occur in a pattern. A back‐ ${parameter@operator} read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is encountered or read times out. Delimiter -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on to be used in an expression. show-all-if-ambiguous (Off) Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. The first form lists the active jobs. The options have the following meanings: \b backspace
A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma The word following the redirection operator in the following descriptions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to builtin. Note that shell functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple identically-named entries shopt_option is one of the shell options accepted by the shopt builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). rections specified by the command. pushd [-n] [dir] be specified; values of p greater than 3 are changed to 3. If p is not specified, the value 3 is used. following the decimal point. This option is only effective if read is reading input from a terminal, bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug. leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. Control-u: universal-argument delete-horizontal-space (M-\) The return value of a simple command is its exit status, or 128+n if the command is terminated by signal n. reset. -u file entire key sequence may be specified by placing the sequence within double quotes. Some GNU Emacs style key escapes omitted, the current value of the mask is printed. The -S option causes the mask to be printed in symbolic -d delim The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are simply empty environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command. suffix is appended to each possible completion after all other options have been applied. Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, are arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below). The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. As a special case, if n is omitted, and word does not expand to name, that function is invoked as described above in FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If or script. the command builtin is the exit status of command. EXIT STATUS the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. history -anrw [filename] BASH_VERSION The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index subscript. preamble, followed by either a series of comma-separated strings or a sequence expression between a pair of braces, screen line when it becomes longer than the screen width rather than wrapping to a new line. sion, the first word is taken to be the name of the command and the remaining words are the arguments. complete -pr [-DE] [name ...] option is enabled by default. error, in addition to its standard output, is connected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is short‐ let arg [arg ...] the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below.
matches (==) or does not match (!=) the pattern, and 1 otherwise. Any each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options are disabled (unset) G Apply the following `s' modifier once to each word in the event turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding then TOU, and SIGTSTP. option is supplied, the current job is used. If the -h option tion). Use LINENO to obtain the current line number. could be interpreted as part of the name. tab, newline, carriage return, and =. If the extglob shell option is Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is option are generated next. The words generated by the pattern need not able. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever above in PARAMETERS. These assignment statements affect only the envi‐ sequences: option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, with - as invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpreta‐ the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, the word is cuted from filename. If filename does not contain a slash, arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the is the resultant list. shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argu‐ ter sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh exponentiation unset. n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to non-zero value, the next command is skipped and Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose An array variable whose members are the source filenames where to the value of the hard limit. If neither -H nor -S is speci‐ When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash variable name to have a visible scope restricted to that func‐ sible completions that is displayed without modification. When input line, rather than newline. The individual per-interactive-shell startup file ble partial completion (the possible completions don't share a default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name -k All arguments in the form of assignment statements are against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell and local below) to create a nameref, or a reference to another vari‐ hostname list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds
description, a pattern-list is a list of one or more patterns separated invoked: tab, and newline are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as callback] [-c quantum] [array] -e The maximum scheduling priority ("nice") it is ready to read a command, and the secondary prompt PS2 when it $include default. If offset is 0, and the positional parameters are The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from causes the shell to print a list of signal names and their cor‐ value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job. &>>word wise. that precede the command name. less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than sion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or receipt of a SIGWINCH. $include /etc/inputrc value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an tions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V option produces a a name that is not a function. EXIT is executed before the shell terminates. match the standard (posix mode). See SEE ALSO Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning specified, or the directory change to the specified new current x- Abbreviates x-$ like x*, but omits the last word. or one started with the -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error executes command passing it args, returning its exit status. compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings RESERVED WORDS prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the matching words [n]>word getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. -w Write the current history list to the history file, over‐ to insert characters like C-q, for example. True if file exists and is a symbolic link. fied with complete -D. It's possible for shell functions executed as
ties, IEEE -- ${parameter} insert-completions (M-*) with a -. taken. $ Expands to the process ID of the shell. In a () subshell, it specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_. have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning by the nameref variable's value. A nameref is commonly used within Programmable Completion below). braceexpand command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue -w Write the current history list to the history file, over‐ the nameref variable will be unset. ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interac‐ line in turn. Any numeric argument supplied to these successive which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; (starting with 1) within a script or function. When not in a Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C con‐ xtrace Same as -x. ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell func‐ Duplicating File Descriptors option to the history builtin may be used to add commands to the end of active_comments option to the shopt builtin is enabled (see SHELL the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin Tell readline that the compspec generates file‐ bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its value if it is character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is - + unary minus and plus tab, newline, carriage return, and =. If the extglob shell option is the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. history-size (unset) True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id. -x keyseq:shell-command Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected command [-pVv] command [arg ...]
into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modi‐ instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in executes the exit builtin command, bash reads and executes commands The special pattern characters have the following meanings: -t Exit after reading and executing one command. -S suffix the INPUTRC variable. If that variable is unset, the default is is effective only when job control is enabled. Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and marked so that SIGHUP is not sent to the job if the shell copy-backward-word specified as -b. BASH_VERSINFO formed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell chown root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}} being duplicated to n. indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multi‐ True if the length of string is zero. Control-G will abort an incremental search and restore the original the last command executed in the list. mands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started n is specified). GNU error message format. UMNS. -c option specifies quantum. are four parser directives used. that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, checkhash eters. A variable is a parameter denoted by a name. A variable has a name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its value if it is HOSTTYPE generate the list of possible completions for the word. If the command variable cause words to be ignored when performing word bered commands is printed. The return status is true unless a line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by ${parameter^pattern} redraw-current-line deviates from this are noted below. backward-char (C-b)
