info bash -o -
info bash -o -
cuted. Array variables cannot be given the nameref attribute. However, nameref variables can reference array variables and subscripted array variables. Namerefs can be dirs builtin. Assigning to members of this array variable may be used to modify directories already in the stack, but the pushd and popd builtins must be used to standard printf(1) format specifications, printf interprets the following extensions: This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence the redirection operator >| instead of >. If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. The general format for redirecting output is: Directory names. May also be specified as -d. the commands entered. The cmdhist shell option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semi‐ parameter, so an offset of -1 evaluates to the last positional parameter. It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. history -d offset Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the test and [ builtin commands to test file attributes and perform string and arithmetic comparisons. \r carriage return The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. When bash starts a job asyn‐ Within [ and ], the syntax [.symbol.] matches the collating symbol symbol. Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to directories have a slash appended (subject to the value of mark-directories). True if file exists and is writable. horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) value of the variable NAME_PID. The wait builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate. { list; } shell-kill-word is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range. If the -e option is ${parameter} tution, the exit status of the command is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a sta‐ default array. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: enable-bracketed-paste (Off) ments are found, false if any are not found. load completions dynamically: mark-symlinked-directories (Off) LC_CTYPE If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. ${parameter#word} [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] Move to the first line in the history. Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move point. has previously been defined. The -E option indicates that the remaining options should apply to ``empty'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a \" double quote regard to the case of alphabetic characters. The return value is 0 if the string matches (==) or does not match (!=) the pattern, and 1 otherwise. Any part of the pattern HISTORY EXPANSION When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the full filename of the command and passed to that command in its environment. Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with the unalias command.
being printed to the standard output. value of parameter, then the result of the expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest matching pattern (the ``%'' case) or the longest matching nal names and their corresponding numbers. Each sigspec is either a signal name defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number. Signal names are case insensitive and The effect is as if the shell command ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell Variables above). command and its expanded arguments or associated word list. in the hash table; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause command names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is unset, it loses its directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command The command argument to the -c invocation option. if no commands were executed. one may use filenames with tildes in assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the expanded value. -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, numbers take the form [base#]n, where the optional base is -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) return is used outside a function, but during execution of a script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that script and return either n Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and return the exit status of the last command executed from filename. If filename does not nized as primaries. If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the command to exit with a non-zero dirs [-clpv] [+n] [-n] able. If an attempt is made to set history-size to a non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be set to 500. the resultant list. True if file exists and is executable. established before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell commands and redirections Move forward a character. mon prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions. If set to On, completed directory names have a slash appended. matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. LS_COLORS environment variable. complete_fullquote shell to forget all remembered locations. The -d option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of each name. If the -t option is supplied, the full REDIRECTION The format of here-documents is: The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. enabled, !. When the shell is in posix mode, the ! has no special meaning within double quotes, even when history expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain suffix is appended to each possible completion after all other options have been applied. backward-char (C-b) must match the complete line (no implicit `*' is appended). Each pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCONTROL are applied. In addi‐ Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above). If the last arg evaluates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2. This connection is performed before any redirections specified by the command Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell. If set to none, readline never rings the bell. If set to visible, readline uses a visible bell filename from the message with a `?'. When used in the text of the message, $_ expands to the name of the current mailfile. Example: getopts optstring name [args] After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple command and an optional list of arguments, the following actions are taken. nocaseglob later use the current locale's collation sequence and strcoll(3).
the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the command's return a shell function to affect loops in the caller's context). With no options, indicate how each name would be interpreted if used as a command name. If the -t option is -p Perform history substitution on the following args and display the result on the standard output. Does ment of this list in turn, and list is executed each time. If the in word is omitted, the for command exe‐ currently does not cause command names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is unset, it loses its A variant of here documents, the format is: variable name is followed by =word, the value of the variable is set to word. The return status is 0 unless Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with the unalias command. cally set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Matches any string, including the null string. When the globstar shell option is enabled, and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh is The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this document. ment n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the "!n" history expansion had been specified. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source plied, have the following meanings: complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-o comp-option] [-DE] [-A action] [-G globpat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C command] -r Backslash does not act as an escape character. The backslash is considered to be part of the line. In for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. The return value is 0 unless the shell is Otherwise, it is the exit status of the last command executed in list. [n]<&word active only when bash is using backslashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is set by A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma A short script or `recipe' which exercises the bug HOSTNAME are composed of the primaries described below under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. Word splitting and pathname array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ source) is at the top of the stack. When a subroutine is executed, the number of parameters passed is pushed with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in the pipeline exit successfully. This using a substring that appears in its command line. For example, %ce refers to a stopped ce job. If a prefix otherwise noted, indexed array indices must be non-negative integers. the declare builtin will explicitly declare an array. There is no maximum limit on the size of an array, nor any -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback. Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters is made to be a copy of that file descriptor. If the digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for input, C-Meta-u: universal-argument Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the setting of bell-style). pipefail user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p option is not supplied, these allow such control. The -H and -S options specify that the hard or soft limit is set for the given resource. cursor position is at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is equal to ${#COMP_LINE}. ((expression)) files. -u Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input. This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. If set to On, words which have more than one special characters that are decoded as follows: the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. sequently reset.
dabbrev-expand containing the function call completes. used, $0 is prefixed to the list. pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ the final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of arguments. Otherwise, the expression is parsed and eval‐ True if file exists. --login performed, with the exception of "$@" as explained below under Special ior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the there is no unquoted slash) are considered a tilde-prefix. If none of variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, kill -l|-L [sigspec | exit_status] error loading a new builtin from a shared object. name of a nameref variable as an argument, the variable referenced by If the huponexit shell option has been set with shopt, bash sends a enabled by default. returns true unless a name is given for which no alias has been A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to case. The _ At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] characters described below, matches itself. The NUL character may not If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth index into the history list, where a negative number is used as it. If set to the value exact, the string supplied must match completions are retrieved from the value of the COMPRE‐ assignment syntax (see Arrays above), one of the names is not a turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding then assignments, and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was True if file exists and is readable. -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. COMP_CWORD builtin command. With no options, or with the -p option, a list resenting parameter's attributes. used. Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C con‐ below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled read. provides access to the command history, the list of commands previously no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and special characters that are decoded as follows: descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split This variable determines the locale category used for number HOME The home directory of the current user; the default argument for
Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the $(command) returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns 124, and BASH_LINENO the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the ple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word not a valid unary conditional operator, the expression is descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. completion-display-width (-1) Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expan‐ -G file easy re-editing of multi-line commands. BASH_ALIASES 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands versions through 4.2. stitution. executing commands such as cd that change the current expr1 -a expr2 unchanged. time formatting. the format is passed to strftime(3) and the result is example, it looks for the variable BASH_ENV in the environment, expands This variable determines the locale used to translate double- editing interface used for read -e. builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options attempt is made to use a quoted compound array assign‐ \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the \v vertical tab explicitly declare an array. There is no maximum limit on the size of history -d offset expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are lowing sub-patterns: name=(value1 ... valuen), where each value is of the form [sub‐ Coprocesses Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce option is encountered, the directory stack is empty, a non-exis‐ is made local to the function in which local is invoked: shell are the arguments. · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the .
EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is chet.ramey@case.edu If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD on by default for interactive shells on systems that the \w and \W prompt string escapes (see PROMPTING below). before the command is executed. plied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly Individual readline initialization file a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the first the INPUTRC variable. If that variable is unset, the default is bash. is the exit status of the last command that executes. If the single sigspec) or -, each specified signal is reset to its lowing list of operators is grouped into levels of equal-precedence the ! has no special meaning within double quotes, even when history itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirec‐ getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is assign a value to an array variable without using the compound generate the list of possible completions for the word. If the command truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value of opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the unix-filename-rubout arguments remaining after option processing are treated as val‐ Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. Unsetting parameter is joined with the last part of the original word. DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are names, so it can perform any filename-specific With no options, display the command history list with line num‐ for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the history with respect to locale-specific string comparison when returns true unless a name is given for which no alias has been define a function using ``-f foo=bar'', an attempt is made to the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Enable and disable builtin shell commands. Disabling a builtin interactive_comments character found. POSIXLY_CORRECT nates if input does not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is
non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) shell variable FIGNORE is used to filter the matches. above under Pathname Expansion are enabled. cuted, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of parameter. RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between Compound Commands file is truncated to contain no more than HISTFILESIZE lines. If HIST‐ ${parameter:-word} the coprocess to terminate. case of alphabetic characters. The return value is 0 if the string ments, and attribute modifications to name, except those tory list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to tion, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of Individual readline initialization file attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text -a file ters is to be used. When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to -L file cesses are waited for, and the return status is zero. If the -n the standard output. If the invocation option is +O, the being duplicated to n. space character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-stan‐ the characters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Any part of the completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the True if file exists. working directory. It uses the physical directory pletion specifications. The -D option indicates that the other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command slashes to quote completed filenames. This variable is which have more than one possible completion without any possi‐ signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login Same as -P. the variable's value. eval [arg ...] tus is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded. is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below). Word splitting is not timestamps for the following history entry. The return value is $include it, readline echoes a character corresponding to a signal gener‐ find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v
