info bash -o -
info bash -o -
If readline is being used to read the line, text is placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale. Note that both x and y must be of the same it exists. completion-map-case (Off) readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] The value of parameter is substituted. The braces are required when parameter is a positional parameter with more than one digit, or when parameter is followed by a Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the histverify shell option is enabled (see the descrip‐ -c Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries. ries are added to the list with the pushd command; the popd command removes entries from the list. The current directory is always the first directory in the stack. pipeline exit successfully. This option is disabled by default. mable Completion below). is the result of quote removal on word, and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is saved in the variable REPLY. The list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print punct space upper word xdigit LINENO Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the current sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one. Indexing starts at zero. mailwarn CHILD_MAX export Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as -e. history -anrw [filename] and unit are printed before the value. Other options are interpreted as follows: digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) nosort Tell readline not to sort the list of possible completions alphabetically. Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns cal to the while command, except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The exit status 2 arguments each is set. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options have the following meanings: compat41 The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is being assigned to the variable. Readline Variables set to the name given, and the remaining arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any. Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression expr. Each operator and operand must be a separate argument. The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell Variables). The shell uses that exits. (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion is not within double quotes, each positional parameter expands to a separate word. In -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum. defined with the -f option to the export builtin. A function definition may be deleted using the -f option to the unset builtin. Note that shell functions and variables GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the current user is a member. Assignments to GROUPS have no effect. If GROUPS is unset, it loses its spe‐
string ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, insert the nth word from the previous patibility levels correspond to the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are valid val‐ True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. or backslash terminates the command substitution. When using the $(command) form, all characters between the parentheses make up the command; none are treated specially. If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when the shift count exceeds the number of positional parameters. /dev/udp/host/port case ASCII characters will collate together. possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the character ``.'' at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched Readline provides commands for searching through the command history (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are two search modes: incremental list. diately instead of ringing the bell. Matches anything except one of the given patterns -G file (write to when stty tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal by the kernel's terminal driver, which, unless caught, suspends the process. command, plus any additions via the export and declare -x commands. Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete line of input (or a specified number of characters) is not read within timeout seconds. timeout may Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument that is significant. Passing a intervening separators. Names of shell functions. Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. \C- control prefix sible for shell functions executed as completion handlers to indicate that completion should be retried by returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns using standard word expansions. The file descriptors are not available in subshells. The process ID of the shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the of the command placed into the foreground, or failure if run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, if jobspec does not specify a valid If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing case or [[ conditional commands, when performing pattern ${parameter:=word} operators (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue with the next command in the list after The % character introduces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or other information. The escape sequences and their meanings are as follows; the stack. For instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The caller builtin displays the current call Remove matching suffix pattern. The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches a trailing portion of the expanded bash reads these files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). described above. Care must be taken to avoid unwanted side effects caused by pathname expansion. unset name, where name is an array, or unset name[subscript], where sub‐ This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. file File names. May also be specified as -f. term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by the terminal's function keys. The word on History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into words. It takes place in two parts. The first is to determine plied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the ties, even if it is subsequently reset. On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the variable HISTFILE (default ~/.bash_history). The file named by the value of HISTFILE is truncated, if transpose-chars (C-t) Note that the order of redirections is significant. For example, the command one that exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the shell is started to inhibit this behavior. glob-list-expansions (C-x g)SECONDS ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode. when completion is attempted on an empty line. defines the file descriptor to close. In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection ters it reads), regardless of what the terminal claims it can support. The name meta-flag is a synonym for bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name values they had prior to the function's execution. r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are given in args, getopts parses After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple command and an optional list of arguments, the pushd [-n] [dir] redraw-current-line current locale. If the current locale is C or POSIX, the dollar sign is ignored. If the string is translated and nolog Currently ignored. completion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID -a aname Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable. If bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for which a trap has been set, the trap will not comparison FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command. in the current shell execution environment. The following redirection operators may precede or appear anywhere invoke $VISUAL, $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. If set, the history list is appended to the file named by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the \n newline an expression, shell variables may also be referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. A shell expanded from characters immediately following it which could be interpreted as part of the name. file named by the value of HISTFILE is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than the number of lines specified file File names. May also be specified as -f. for command: value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking. Capitalize the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, capitalize the previous word, but do is interactive, unless the shell is started with the --noediting option. This also affects with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in the pipeline exit successfully. This The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word of the simple command. -l List the names of all readline functions.
completion-prefix-display-length (0) · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. HISTIGNORE The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print list of all readonly names is printed. The other options may be is one of /dev/stdin, /dev/stdout, or /dev/stderr, file descriptor 0, tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and command sub‐ IGNOREEOF placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. True if file exists and is set-group-id. editing-mode (emacs) followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus shell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inher‐ format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each dis‐ and source file corresponding to that position in the current ronment. If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the argument, save the deleted text on the kill ring. to be interpreted as part of its name. The parameter is a shell Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but an argument of -- as signifying the end of options. Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override ${parameter%word} children If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running p Print the new command but do not execute it. support it (see JOB CONTROL above). All processes run is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file decreasing order of precedence: command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, search. or add to the variable's previous value. This includes arguments to unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text nocaseglob, nullglob, failglob, and dotglob shell options. may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to protect the undefined results. of the resultant list which match the word being com‐ return is executed by a trap handler, the last command used to Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the to be removed from each name. If a variable name is followed by -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with
-- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional override the normal precedence of operators. through the list. into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modi‐ new line. ${parameter:offset} followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus with -P, and the current working directory cannot be success‐ list. The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE variables may be set to cause the comma the background, whether executed as an asynchronous command or arguments are needed, a shell function should be used (see FUNCTIONS with the text of the word being completed. A literal & may be escaped mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). fied in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard nothing (i.e., they are removed). primary prompt when emacs editing mode is active. The value is +B option or disable brace expansion with the +B option to the set com‐ the last command of a pipeline not executed in the back‐ the shell's parent If set, command substitution inherits the value of the classes defined in the POSIX standard: Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF is subsequently reset. above) but after history expansion is performed, subject to the values available for subsequent recall. betic characters. The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file readline's default completion will be performed if the compspec (and, characters will be inserted into the line as if they had been the startup behavior is the same, but the effective user id is not status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell set. If parameter is @, an indexed array subscripted by @ or *, user typed. It is not an error to use 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh if there is just one word in the shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( commands (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The first word of each wise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing characters is enabled. The -E option disables the interpreta‐ printf [-v var] format [arguments] unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it The shell treats several parameters specially. These parameters may
tion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell func‐ bound to insert the text ``Function Key 1''. This variable determines the locale category used for number show-all-if-unmodified (Off) tions, as described in the following table. If the operating system on ${parameter,,pattern} and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution BASH_EXECUTION_STRING the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automati‐ history-preserve-point (Off) sion in the EXPANSION section. tilde-expand (M-&) interprets the following extensions: completion-display-width (-1) executing that script and return either n or the exit status of $ The last word. This is usually the last argument, but will (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirec‐ it provides for filing a bug report. [n]<<<word ! ~ logical and bitwise negation current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, rences. of the resultant list which match the word being com‐ The index of the current cursor position relative to the begin‐ new current working directory as if it had been supplied are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. An associative array variable whose members correspond to the keyword Same as -k. ${parameter[offset]}. A negative offset is taken relative to 6. Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done and its expanded arguments or associated word list. in a function, declare and typeset make each name local, as with variable. =word, the value of the variable is set to word. export returns all remaining characters on that line to be ignored. An interactive unix-line-discard (C-u) Here Strings EXPANSION and the return status is 0. popd returns false if an invalid -v The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the and the directory change is successful, the absolute pathname of is executed as if it were the argument to the cd com‐
The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the -s Discard the first count lines read. case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line. The compound command are not tested, and are added to the history BASH_VERSINFO below. each pattern in turn, using the same matching rules as for path‐ copy-region-as-kill not previously active) editing settings. characters. # Quote the current or previous word bind [-m keymap] keyseq:readline-command array is not an indexed array. M-Control-u: universal-argument True if the length of string is non-zero. mailwarn ter not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of char‐ turn, and list is executed each time. If the in word is omit‐ the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted ${parameter[offset]}. A negative offset is taken relative to If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.2 primaries. tom-most element (the one with the highest index) is "main". executing that script and return either n or the exit status of first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of the func‐ arithmetic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word Names of shell functions. pletions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches. If the -o After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command of the shell variables HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL. -v varname error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second Names of disabled shell builtins. 6. Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, compat41 expression1 && expression2 environment. This option is enabled when posix mode is directory fails. beginning or end serves to delimit words. If IFS has a value other options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the charac‐ appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an
