info bash -o -
info bash -o -
history -c is on by default if the shell is invoked as sh. escape characters, even on systems where they are interpreted by default. The xpg_echo shell option may be used to dynamically determine whether or not echo expands resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current com‐ Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as the first word of a simple command. The shell maintains a list of aliases that may be set and unset Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete key sequence using the input read so True if file exists and is readable. tern begins with #, it must match at the beginning of the expanded value of parameter. If pattern begins with %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of is attempted. \t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format The following variables are set by the shell: EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell starts with value "t", it assumes that the shell is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line passed to a shell function as its first argument, running Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If subscript is @ or *, the word !-n Refer to the current command minus n. If the first character of parameter is an exclamation point (!), and parameter is not a nameref, it introduces a level of variable indirection. Bash uses the value of the $((expression)) If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ conditional command's =~ operator and locale-specific \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the directories in PATH for the script. -v Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack. If -s is supplied, the output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a mand substitution, or parameter expansion. The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of histchars above under Shell Variables). The shell uses MANDS below). The options appearing in BASHOPTS are those reported as on by shopt. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in insert-completions (M-*) \v vertical tab Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word. Print all of the settable readline variables and their values to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a or the exit status of the last command executed within the script as the exit status of the script. If n is supplied, the return value is its least significant 8 SHLVL Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. ${parameter@operator} to be completed. This means that dollar signs in variable names that expand to directories will not be quoted; however, any dollar signs appearing in file‐ slash escapes the following character; the escaping backslash is discarded when matching. The special pattern characters must be quoted if they are to be matched liter‐ \" double quote colored-stats (Off) TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select command terminates if input does not arrive after In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the interactive_comments option to the shopt builtin is enabled (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word BASH_ALIASES
formed as the result of tests. There are four parser directives used. "\e[11~": "Function Key 1" allexport posix mode is enabled. to give variables attributes: Compound commands and command sequences of the form `a ; b ; c' are not handled gracefully when process suspension is attempted. When a process is stopped, the shell imme‐ completion-query-items (100) Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned to the readline completion beginning of the line, Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file. For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc: interprets the following options when it is invoked: pipefail original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined with the last part of the original word. When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with an empty tion below). fully changed; false otherwise. glob-expand-word (C-x *) If timeout is 0, read returns immediately, without trying to read any data. The exit status is 0 if input is available on the specified file descriptor, non- -k The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for reading on file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) EXECIGNORE 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh / % multiplication, division, remainder Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script. supplied, have the following meanings: When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string, any remembered search errtrace The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment command is executed. This command is bound to M-# in emacs mode and to # in vi command mode. the commands in the subshell. history-search-forward keymap (emacs) that case. Alias with no arguments or with the -p option prints the list of aliases in the form alias name=value on standard output. When arguments are supplied, an alias is jobs -x command [ args ... ] Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; and &, which have equal precedence. Copy the word following point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as forward-word. If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing the suspend character (typically ^Z, Control-Z) while a cause the text to be accumulated into one unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. the format is passed to strftime(3) and the result is inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results in a locale-specific time representation. The This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup
The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When this variable is assigned a value, the his‐ ments. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function COMMAND EXECUTION of the last command substitution performed. If there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a status for re-running the previous command entered, substituting one string for another in the command. The default After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one or more of the following modifiers, each pre‐ to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options appearing in SHELLOPTS are those possible-completions (M-?) name in the argument list for which no value is supplied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the following: EUID Expands to the effective user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is read‐ C-d commonly is, see above for the effects. inherit_errexit Killing and Yanking physical mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs} Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history lines. The rather than being loaded all at once. Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. not result in a compspec, any compspec defined with the -D option to complete is used as the default. search is performed, and filename is used as the full filename of the command. The -r option causes the shell \C- control prefix or @, the value substituted is the number of elements in the array. If parameter is an indexed array name sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains tildes). false if an invalid option is encountered, the directory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack entry options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. When the shell is in posix mode, time may be followed by a newline. In this case, the shell displays the total user The number of screen columns used to display possible matches when performing completion. The value is getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not. True if file exists and is a block special file. completion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal hash table of commands as maintained by and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will be unset rather than the variable it references. discarded when matching. The special pattern characters must be quoted if they are to be matched literally. \cx a control-x character -u Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input. equivalent to let "expression". status greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed. Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable.
The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names strings they output in such a way that they can be re- command to exit with a non-zero status. Expressions may be combined using the following operators, command. Ordinarily, variables and their values are shared between the The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the argu‐ checkjobs shell option has been enabled using the shopt builtin, run‐ command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, Perform history and alias expansion on the current line. arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options (and, if necessary, the are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion erated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard names during word completion if the directory name ini‐ Insert the character typed. against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell · parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at -v Display readline variable names and values in such a way inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from form is used, the return status is that of the command re-exe‐ let arg [arg ...] enabled. For example, to use the test binary found via the PATH Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic the line is read but before the array element is assigned. erwise it will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file ment character causes history substitution to be skipped for the builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames mable completion facilities are invoked. same character as the tty EOF character, as C-d commonly is, see executed from the file whose name is the expanded value. No other is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parame‐ -v Print shell input lines as they are read. option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a easy re-editing of multi-line commands. Only brace expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can change value of PATH indicates the current directory. A null directory shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( The positional parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 ....
Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array vari‐ mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Non-interactive shells do not command to submit a bug report. If you have a fix, you are encouraged lines should be saved on the history list. Each pattern is enable the globasciiranges shell option. A - may be are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the program‐ The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next char‐ Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the the last command of a pipeline not executed in the back‐ the executing shell. The standard output of command is connected via a The general format for redirecting input is: source file name and line number corresponding to ing: script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop fails. With the second form, pushd returns 0 unless the direc‐ BASH_COMMAND E The expansion is a string that is the value of parameter name results from the expansion of word exists and is a regular file. interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input able name is followed by =value, the value of the variable is even if it is subsequently reset. conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ ately following a : or the first =. In these cases, tilde expansion is option is encountered. processing. Any arguments after the -- are treated as file‐ resetting the currently-set variables. Read-only variables can‐ Miscellaneous the --debugger option. If set after invocation, behav‐ default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the formed. pathname expansion are not performed on the results. present, then SIGTERM is assumed. An argument of -l lists the found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or complete-command (M-!) gle backslash will quote the &. If old is null, it is set to ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the above). hostname
shell exits A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. option. A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from command, select command, or arithmetic for command, dis‐ -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays exit if exec fails. plied. The variable MAPFILE is the default array. Options, if cannot be read. Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input plied, or if job control is not enabled. expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt (see the description of ward-delete-char replace the character before point with a set to value. When using -a or -A and the compound assignment shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ tiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indi‐ history -d offset expr1 , expr2 that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell func‐ values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and export Names of exported shell variables. May also be variable. That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where c list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else Appending Standard Output and Standard Error option are generated next. The words generated by the pattern need not hostname. the cd builtin command. The value of this variable is also used the name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the posi‐ ment, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification graphically using ASCII ordering. Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. && logical AND returns immediately, without trying to read any data. do not allow this value to be set) builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options fg [jobspec] tive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. LC_NUMERIC mal point. This option is only effective if read is stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This described above. The -D option indicates that the remaining to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may It's too big and too slow. to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a
True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. syntax to create array variables, additional attributes do not . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 ilar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or Next, any command specified with the -C option is invoked in an envi‐ `?'. When used in the text of the message, $_ expands to the -A action readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Condi‐ rently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is lar sign from the set of characters that will be quoted has no effect if the -f option is supplied. If no options are precedence using the rules listed above. only. -b The maximum socket buffer size arithmetic expression to be evaluated. Arithmetic expansions may be deleted using the -f option to the unset builtin. Note that shell terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where neces‐ redirected as described previously. -i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evalua‐ set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [arg ...] PWD The current working directory as set by the cd command. command set -o posix had been executed. True if file exists. ated by the preceding options and arguments, and each dard input. If the line consists of a number corresponding to This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the (those preceding the command name) and redirections are saved An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special sary. When characters are supplied, the expression expands to each If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an fied with complete -D. It's possible for shell functions executed as variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is beginning-of-history (M-<) fied with the -X option is applied to the list. The filter is a pat‐ boards without a meta key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key -s Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the hostname the --debugger option. If set after invocation, behav‐ sion is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return [n]>&digit- tion (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is performed when table object) file format. <= >= < > option.
