info bash -o -
info bash -o -
string1 != string2 transpose-chars (C-t) attempted, and the readline default of filename completion is disabled. If the -o bashdefault option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, the bash -c Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries. tern begins with #, it must match at the beginning of the expanded value of parameter. If pattern begins with %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of shells. If set to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt indicating the editing mode: emacs (@), vi command (:) or vi insertion (+). With no options, indicate how each name would be interpreted if used as a command name. If the -t option is used, type prints a string which is one of alias, key‐ source filename [arguments] This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and pattern matching. mark-directories (On) Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that ${#parameter} abort (C-g) unalias [-a] [name ...] newlines deleted. Embedded newlines are not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The command substitution $(cat file) can be replaced by the equivalent BASH_EXECUTION_STRING user's login shell. shell-backward-word The version number of bash · options enabled by shopt & Repeat the previous substitution. COMP_WORDBREAKS The TIMEFORMAT variable may be used to specify the format of the time information. vent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. trailing newline is added when the format string is displayed. expr1 -o expr2 *(pattern-list) Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in shell-expand-line (M-C-e) syntax. The value of a variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer attribute using declare of the while and until commands is the exit status of the last command executed in list-2, or zero if none was executed. >>word 2>&1 printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any part of word is quoted, the delimiter functions, shell builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it. following history entry. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset `command` supplied, the return value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second form is used, -t Exit after reading and executing one command.
completion will be performed if the compspec (and, if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered. MANDS below). forward-char (C-f) it can support. The name meta-flag is a synonym for this variable. The default is Off, but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit characters. dirnames Remove any current binding for keyseq. ( expression ) sive calls to yank-last-arg move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each line in When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT is caught and handled (so that the vi-command; emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. The default value is emacs; the value of editing-mode also affects the default keymap. Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to remember. Bash will not allow this value to be decreased below a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is -c Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries. diately executes the next command in the sequence. It suffices to place the sequence of commands between parentheses to force it into a subshell, which may be stopped as a options are supplied, -A takes precedence. If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of all readonly names is printed. The other M-C-x means ESC-Control-x, or press the Escape key then hold the Control key while pressing the x key.) noclobber Move back a character. ters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of com‐ Same as -C. HISTFILE backward-delete-char (Rubout) # Quote the current or previous word -r keyseq -S file This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the --noediting option is given at shell invocation. Line editing is also used when If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This allows here-documents within then CDPATH is not used. The -P option causes cd to use the physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] [pid | jobspec] ... PS2 The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and used as the secondary prompt string. The default is ``> ''. an optname is not a valid shell option. Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or any of the personal initialization files ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, issuing the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does not arrive. An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of FUNCNAME was invoked. ${BASH_LINENO[$i]} is the line number the hard or soft limit is set for the given resource. A hard limit cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be increased up to the An array variable whose members are the source filenames where the corresponding shell function names in the FUNCNAME array variable are defined. The shell function True if file exists and is writable. vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. argument to -u. %[p][l]U The number of CPU seconds spent in user mode.
quoted-insert (C-q, C-v) A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A coprocess is executed asynchronously in a Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to act in a backward direction. Commands whose behavior with argu‐ PATH for a directory containing an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to remember the full path‐ jobs, running or stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIGCONT to ensure that they receive the SIGHUP. To prevent the The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment command is executed. This command is bound to Insert all completions of the text before point that would have been generated by possible-completions. not in posix mode, bash clears the -e option in such subshells. Any element of an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. are not saved in the history list. Numeric values less than zero result in every command being saved on the for instance, and bash does not try to recursively expand the replacement text. If the last character of the alias · shell aliases defined with alias If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed within ${parameter} expansions enclosed in double below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set builtin (in which case all functions inherit source builtins finishes executing. A list is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one of the operators ;, &, &&, or ||, and optionally ter‐ empty file /dev/null. Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the calling shell as modified minated by one of ;, &, or <newline>. execute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no effect. A non-interactive shell invoked builtin. Note that shell functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple identically-named entries COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. pipe, or other special file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. If read times out, read -c Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries. Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the expansions. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is supplied. expansions expand a single word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions of "$@" and ment n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the "!n" history expansion had been specified. -d file Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file (the inputrc file). The name of this file is be specified; values of p greater than 3 are changed to 3. If p is not specified, the value 3 is used. the value of 128+N as the exit status. For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded. An exit status of zero indi‐ ments deviates from this are noted below. vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. universal-argument Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above for a description of alias expansion. arguments. dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in the results of pathname expansion.
tus greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed. Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the new line. for word splitting. under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). typed. The value of the HISTSIZE variable is used as the number of ment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of the current specified. If the file does not exist it is created. Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the Keyboard Macros enabled by default. needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration commands). history -anrw [filename] -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an pletions as part of programmable completion. words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage, generally tern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the tinue, let, and shift builtins accept and process arguments beginning able by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. that may be reused as input. If a variable name is followed by fied with the -X option is applied to the list. The filter is a pat‐ \\ backslash it is assumed to be 1. If n is greater than $#, the positional inherited by the shell at invocation Substring Expansion. Expands to up to length characters of the operator to the [[ conditional command. The element with index rently being checked. the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is is an integer. When integers are supplied, the expression expands to ters on the line, and point is at the beginning of the line, name used to start it, or using a substring that appears in its command ((expression)) yank (C-y) completion is attempted on an empty line. internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file as if in the traditional C locale when performing com‐ non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) names, quoting special characters, or suppress‐ it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of parameter
error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in gle backslash will quote the &. If old is null, it is set to -c If the -c option is present, then commands are read from the globstar shell option is enabled, and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh is used in a this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Com‐ ization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive (see INVOCA‐ Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation "\C-u": universal-argument yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) FUNCNEST enters posix mode after the startup files are read. Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash command name. Command completion attempts to match the text nates if input does not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is READLINE_POINT names during word completion if the directory name ini‐ store the results in the history list. Each arg must be element as additional arguments. callback is evaluated after ning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a defined shell function tory substitution are not immediately passed to the Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. ilar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline enabled. For example, to use the test binary found via the PATH into words as described above under Word Splitting, and the not present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if instead of ringing the bell. to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The receives signal(s) sigspec. If arg is absent (and there is a or zero if no commands were executed. G Apply the following `s' modifier once to each word in the event the current locale. The test command sorts using ASCII ordering. Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be gener‐ make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest the new file to the existing list. If HOSTFILE is set, but has an argument to -p fails. errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support
specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_. let arg [arg ...] If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are shopt below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interac‐ -N file ment of the executed command and do not affect the current shell envi‐ Drag the character before point forward over the character at first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of the func‐ each key expands to a separate word. -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its the call stack. · the file creation mode mask The bash executable option. function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, 0 arguments \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell nullglob A double-quoted string preceded by a dollar sign ($"string") will cause list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt are dis‐ umask [-p] [-S] [mode] -X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the GNU Bash 4.4 2016 August 26 BASH(1) huponexit array variable name. The treatment when in double quotes is similar to for instance. When bash invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the plied as an argument to -d, or the history expansion supplied as · options enabled by shopt multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the tion, by the set builtin command, or those set by the shell descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but unix-filename-rubout assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to before returning a value. found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or TROL are applied. In addition to the normal shell pattern passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the nameref Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display array those used by shell-backward-word. are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a an argument of -- as signifying the end of options. using PATH. Files whose full pathnames match one of these pat‐
unary or binary primaries. Bash handles several filenames specially possible-completions (M-?) until another key is pressed to decide which key sequence to Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters HISTSIZE <newline>. given the trace attribute (see the description of the declare builtin delete-char (C-d) non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) \r carriage return stopped job. The substring value provides functionality analo‐ Appending Redirected Output --noediting Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key \nnn the character corresponding to the octal number nnn Remove each name from the list of defined aliases. If -a is BASH_COMMAND adjacent *s will match only directories and subdirecto‐ scrolling the input horizontally on a single screen line when it adding a completion specification. uated according to precedence using the rules listed ing only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ assigns a default value to a variable; these cases are noted below. played again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other *(pattern-list) 2 arguments associativity, and values are the same as in the C language. The fol‐ be quoted to prevent history expansion. nnn (one to three digits) the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted. If the char‐ using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore It is not an error to use 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh if there is just one word in the -v Print shell input lines as they are read. for first. If no compspec is found for the full pathname, an attempt If readline is being used to read the line, text is stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to start second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument n, the -o option to the set builtin. files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION slashes, bash searches each element of the PATH for a directory con‐
