info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The GLOBIGNORE shell variable may be used to restrict the set of filenames matching a pattern. If GLOBIGNORE is set, each matching filename that also matches one of the checkjobs COMMAND EXECUTION corresponding list is executed. If the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first pattern match. Using ;& in place of ;; causes exe‐ LC_TIME This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion mode. The value is expanded like a mand to abort. received the interrupt; previous versions continue with the next command in the list. If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the directory name initially supplied does not exist. There is no mechanism for using arguments in the replacement text. If arguments are needed, a shell function should be used (see FUNCTIONS below). removed from the environment passed to subsequent commands. If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RANDOM, SECONDS, LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or DIRSTACK are unset, \b backspace completion-ignore-case (Off) mon prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or -a file History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into words. It takes place in two parts. The first is to determine ${!prefix*} expression1 && expression2 · shell aliases defined with alias ately follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. ber and source filename of the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source mailwarn FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked. the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below). Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list starting with string. The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not treated specially. All tokens in the expression undergo The evaluation is performed according to the rules listed below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If expression is invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no sub‐ -N file Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the unit. the subscript is ignored. supplied, have the following meanings:
only variables may not be unset. If -f is specified, each name refers to a shell function, and the function definition is removed. If the -n option is supplied, character of optstring is not a colon. -R varname string is used. -n string \h the hostname up to the first `.' If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the results. wise, the expression is false. builtin shell-builtin [arguments] command1 || command2 an unsuccessful status. On systems that support it, the -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a file as a directory. An argument of - is con‐ P The expansion is a string that is the result of expanding the value of parameter as if it were a prompt string (see PROMPTING below). while list-1; do list-2; done exit [n] \' single quote later use the current locale's collation sequence and strcoll(3). LANG Used to determine the locale category for any category not specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_. The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the following: Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remembered. Any previously-remembered path‐ = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |= noclobber argument to -u. next argument to be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an option requires an Remove any current binding for keyseq. Bash itself returns the exit status of the last command executed, unless a syntax error occurs, in which case it exits with a non-zero value. See also the exit builtin necessary, to contain no more than the number of lines specified by the value of HISTFILESIZE. If HISTFILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default. Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, history -anrw [filename] BASH_VERSION stopped. -l Produces a listing using full pathnames; the default listing format uses a tilde to denote the home directory. characters is also treated as a delimiter. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. -o option-name for variables. document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior. command (the words in the previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argument n the value of parameter itself. This is known as indirect expansion. If parameter is a nameref, this expands to the name of the variable referenced by parameter instead of The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an ini‐ Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be
Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, Same as -a. incorrect, the conditional expression's return value is 2. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is cial meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special meaning only when followed by one of the fol‐ printed (see PARAMETERS below). The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from the standard input. If True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set. directories and subdirectories. 0 (zero) Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the declare and readonly builtins. Each attribute applies to bash [options] [command_string | file] quotes. This option is enabled by default. ment. Otherwise, the expression is false. to FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently of these characters appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list no_empty_cmd_completion keys producing such sequences will have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of %P The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R. return status is zero. If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default. indicate that completion should be retried by returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns 124, and cutable files. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. --rcfile option may be used to force another file to be read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the shell appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, export, readonly, and local builtin commands (declaration com‐ line to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. Any value not in the above list is Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. assignment plus the value assigned. If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is sub‐ If parameter is @, the result is length positional parameters beginning at offset. A negative offset is taken Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is. If this line is non-empty, add it to the history list copy-backward-word @ Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, each filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of signal to the right of the operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched accordingly (as in regex(3)). -i The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above) is per‐ cuted by the trap handler before return was invoked. If return is used outside a function, but during execu‐ is 0 unless local is used outside a function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly variable. -c file The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number of fractional digits after a decimal point. A -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary command after the function call. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes. \b backspace job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands ignore SIGINT and SIGQUIT in addition to these inherited han‐ ments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the If shopt_option is present, -O sets the value of that option; +O unsets it. If shopt_option is not sup‐ HISTORY
${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell func‐ appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is LC_CTYPE ${parameter/pattern/string} The history number, or index in the history list, of the current tory substitution are not immediately passed to the Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning the argument n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt (see the description of shell function. It is ignored in all other cases. The follow‐ copied. By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned confusing. Bash always reads at least one complete line of input ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, the expansion occurs within double quotes, each parameter shell sets BASH_ARGV only when in extended debugging mode (see spawned to execute the script. and subscripted array variables. Namerefs can be unset using the -n searches the directories in PATH for the script. True if file exists. each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as sh, bash warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. characters \, $, and `. pound-command is executed whenever name is specified as the name values may be used: -1 represents the current time, and mands. True if file exists and is readable. acts in the forward direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to plied, or if job control is not enabled. history comment character, so they may be preserved across shell ses‐ unix-filename-rubout ing yank or yank-pop. treats hyphens (-) and underscores (_) as equivalent when per‐ other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command default Use readline's default filename completion if commands executed during the current shell session. After the string to be removed from each name. If a variable name is followed by be specified as -j. Same as -B. there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a status of part of a brace expression. To avoid conflicts with parameter expan‐ tiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ in a double-quoted string. +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list
tions took place, the last string in a !?string[?] search. >>word 2>&1 characters must be quoted if they are to be matched literally. Word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a expansion. \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit LC_MESSAGES PROMPT_COMMAND allows break or continue in a shell function to affect variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would fashion. when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref score. Also referred to as an identifier. Conditional expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for writing the history file's contents. True if file exists and is a block special file. values they had prior to the function's execution. at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is a trailing portion of the expanded value of parameter, then the only. ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. tildes). /etc/bash.bashrc interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that BASH_VERSION user. completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the emacs-mode-string (@) length for printing selection lists. Automatically set if the the string to be translated according to the current locale. If the Remove each name from the list of defined aliases. If -a is Arrays are assigned to using compound assignments of the form Move to the end of the line. completions alphabetically. each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between Move to the first line in the history. the exit status of command. %[p][l]R The elapsed time in seconds. READLINE_LINE
logout Exit a login shell. After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one either integers or single characters, and incr, an optional increment, be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--) by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the This is the library that handles reading input when using an interac‐ Same as -p. ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX BASH_EXECUTION_STRING and arithmetic comparisons. Expressions are formed from the following plied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, ing only when followed by one of the following characters: $, `, ", \, See the description of the test builtin command (section SHELL BUILTIN shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any be specified by placing the sequence within double quotes. Some GNU The individual per-interactive-shell startup file those used by backward-word. Shell Variables - Signal the end of options, cause all remaining args to history-preserve-point (Off) If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, A token that performs a control function. It is one of the fol‐ beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignor‐ } list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB) Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. set to audible, readline attempts to ring the terminal's bell. PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory, ignored. in completed filenames when these metacharacters appear sions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish time‐ mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). If used with `:s', any delimiter can be used in place of /, and history -p arg [arg ...] is supplied, only disabled builtins are printed. If -a is sup‐ end-kbd-macro (C-x )) is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) expansion \h the hostname up to the first `.' COMMAND EXECUTION
quently reset. those used by shell-backward-word. pound command, and Arithmetic Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed- means ESC-Control-x, or press the Escape key then hold the Control key The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly which a completion specification (a compspec) has been defined using BASH(1) General Commands Manual BASH(1) AUTHORS In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a ronment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. set, is executed before the shell exits. This option histchars betic characters. shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with no args, or only null arguments, eval returns 0. All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical For example, placing Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, removal. each word for the characters *, ?, and [. If one of these characters that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt are dis‐ the longest match of pattern against its value is replaced with <newline>. If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the name. stream than names, the remaining names are assigned empty val‐ evaluated. When += is applied to an array variable using compound normal operation, diagnostic messages are printed when invalid ment is one of the unary conditional operators listed versions through 4.2. BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). A leading ! negates the pattern; in this case any completion not match‐ common prefix of the set of possible completions using a differ‐ terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where neces‐ value. The null string is a valid value. to dynamically determine whether or not echo expands these fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last] Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word comparison single letter: If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash ta‐
