info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, numbers take the form [base#]n, where the optional base is prefix matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using %?ce, on the other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command line. If the substring is not a shell builtin command. command. Bash displays PS0 after it reads a command but before executing it. Bash allows these prompt strings to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped lines read up to that point are then used as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a command. physical extquote ters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of com‐ readline(3) Without options, the name and value of each shell variable are displayed in a format that can be reused as input for setting or resetting the currently-set vari‐ complete (TAB) complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default braceexpand command Command names. May also be specified as -c. Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point over that word as well. If point is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on shell-backward-kill-word If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the shell enters posix mode before reading the startup files, as if the --posix invocation option had been Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules above. shift_verbose ! ~ logical and bitwise negation A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -s option to the shopt builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it When the == and != operators are used, the string to the right of the operator is considered a pattern and matched according to the rules described below under Pattern HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL. below). The options appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in the fashion); word splitting; and pathname expansion. The positional parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 .... Parameters represented by the numbers $# down to $#-n+1 are unset. n must be a non-negative number a maximum value (currently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is system-dependent. the hard or soft limit is set for the given resource. A hard limit cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit may be increased up to the bell-style (audible) complete-username (M-~) MAILPATH unalias [-a] [name ...] ignoreeof in an alias name. The replacement text may contain any valid shell input, including shell metacharacters. The first word of the replacement text is tested for aliases, Directory names. May also be specified as -d. FILES bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command -s file
Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and pattern matching. Names matching prefix. Expands to the names of variables whose names begin with prefix, separated by the first character of the IFS special variable. When @ is Lists xpg_echo If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current com‐ Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the A login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a -, or one started with the --login option. After any matches defined by the compspec are generated, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the other sive calls to yank-last-arg move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each line in Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is sup‐ http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/ [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is yank-pop (M-y) The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files. If any of the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error. Tildes are expanded in file‐ file does not exist, it is created. and non-incremental. -W wordlist case ASCII characters will collate together. HOME The home directory of the current user; the default argument for the cd builtin command. The value of this variable is also used when performing tilde expansion. listed in order of decreasing precedence. \\ backslash Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. This is a non-incremental search. ${parameter:offset} \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) file1 -nt file2 individual undo lists across calls to readline. readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...] %[p][l]R The elapsed time in seconds. The -s option to the history builtin may be used to add commands to the end of the history list without actually executing them, so that they are available for subsequent show-all-if-unmodified (Off) \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is readonly. value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully. If the reserved word ! precedes a pipeline, the exit sta‐ Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above). If the last arg evaluates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script. filename or directory name completion, the shell variable FIGNORE is used to filter the matches. A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. parameters are used, $0 is prefixed to the list. shells. expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the characters \, $, and `.
If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is ``> ''. insert-comment (M-#) ignoreeof onecmd Same as -t. the shell is in posix mode, it does not recognize time as a reserved word if the next token begins with a `-'. The returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma following actions are taken. below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set builtin (in which case all functions inherit Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, the exit status is that of the last command exe‐ the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; otherwise it will emulate them internally A description of the bug behaviour search string becomes the current line. tional parameters. slash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non-printing -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating or adding directories to the stack, so that builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child If -o is supplied with no option-name, the values of the current options are printed. If +o is sup‐ First, the arithmetic expression expr1 is evaluated according to the rules described below under ARITHMETIC reported as on by shopt. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in the bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq] LC_ALL This variable overrides the value of LANG and any other LC_ variable specifying a locale category. as possible, while conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interactive login shell, or a non- least one space to avoid being confused with the :- expansion. the %string job identifier. skip-completed-text (Off) checkwinsize Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters been supplied. The return value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. is substituted. functrace Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username. -s file [n]<<[-]word ber of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether FUNCTIONS sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[. If this sequence is bound to "\[", ment, getopts places that argument into the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automatically; Assign Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is assigned to parameter. The Same as -B.
[base#]n, where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64 job Job names, if job control is active. May also mark-modified-lines (Off) value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within another shell func‐ AUTHORS case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed. during interactive use by using the -o option to the set builtin com‐ are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. ately, rather than before the next primary prompt. This The list of expansions that would have been generated by non-incremental search. sary. When characters are supplied, the expression expands to each duce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Each character in @(pattern-list) formed. -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. functrace %-. If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer callback] [-c quantum] [array] (described above under Word Splitting). The backslash character ~/.bash_logout [-+]O [shopt_option] inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in The command currently being executed or about to be executed, Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. each number between x and y, inclusive. Supplied integers may be pre‐ +B option or disable brace expansion with the +B option to the set com‐ escaping backslash is discarded when matching. The special pattern arguments are needed, a shell function should be used (see FUNCTIONS shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not allow a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches the ! has no special meaning within double quotes, even when history If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed eter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern If set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see If set to On, a character denoting a file's type as reported by a terminal control sequence into the mode string. %, for menu completion. This variable is available only in bindings or variable assignments found there. kill-line (C-k) ${parameter:+word} The pathname expansion pattern globpat is expanded to
the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the begin‐ may not be changed by subsequent assignment. If the -f option Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the True if file1 is newer (according to modification date) than the startup behavior is the same, but the effective user id is not last, or if the command's return value is being inverted using True if file exists and is a directory. shorthand for re-running the previous command entered, substi‐ not read within timeout seconds. timeout may be a deci‐ case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac ment. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix con‐ Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The expansion of parameters that have no values, are removed. If a parame‐ (see Coprocesses above). lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a between a function and its caller with these exceptions: the DEBUG and representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If search and execute that command. For instance, a newline will termi‐ played in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments restored to their original values when the function returns. specify an indexed array and a -A option to specify an associative mation. ponent in a cd command will be corrected. The errors The number of commands to remember in the command history (see able is read-only. the history list without actually executing them, so that they are tion and its children. If name is -, the set of shell options checkwinsize for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a blocks; -P, -T, -b, -k, -n, and -u, which are unscaled values; -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any than 3 are changed to 3. If p is not specified, the value 3 is unix-filename-rubout Killing and Yanking is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME
[base#]n, where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64 Line editing is also used when using the -e option to the read builtin. for instance. Coprocesses bg [jobspec ...] ent color. The color definitions are taken from the value of bash. If strict compatibility with sh is desired, start bash with the Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, com‐ metacharacter above). completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional parame‐ the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare script is ignored. inherit_errexit pattern matching. same as those used by shell-forward-word. coprocess is executed asynchronously in a subshell, as if the command line. Any delimiter can be used in place of /. The final Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple based on the number of arguments. List the possible completions of the text before point. ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no charac‐ reset. formed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. readonly variable, an error occurs, and the command exits with a non- The special pattern characters have the following meanings: expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expan‐ Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. sions contained a command substitution, the exit status of the command There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single EMACS If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell entries from the list. The current directory is always the ual words in the current command line. The line is split into Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but and arithmetic comparisons. Expressions are formed from the following default Use readline's default filename completion if time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and mal number with a fractional portion following the deci‐ parameter as described above PARAMETERS) or an array reference screen. -u fd Read input from file descriptor fd. able is read-only.
shell sets BASH_ARGV only when in extended debugging mode (see with the -D option to complete is used as the default. trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their precedence, is pushed onto BASH_ARGC. The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history tab-insert (C-v TAB) interrupt the list as if the shell received the inter‐ and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and enabled to that file descriptor. The file descriptor is closed -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a name=value. control operator file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. grammable Completion above) are enabled. This option is ronment. If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a If parameter is @ or *, the operation is applied to each posi‐ This variable determines the locale category used for number declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active. startup files. This variable is read-only. ior. The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the -o option-name If set to On, words which have more than one possible completion current location of the insertion point. If the executed readline(3) arrow keys. defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable com‐ parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an simply listed on the terminal. new value of the specified resource. If no option is given, scores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an under‐ unix-filename-rubout prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the matching words Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. ments may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than variable name to have a visible scope restricted to that func‐ If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell due to an interrupt. signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be
