info bash -o -
info bash -o -
\f form feed complete-filename (M-/) ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. the search for command is performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v option is sup‐ temporarily replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below). FIGNORE attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero status. application · parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at startup complete (TAB) LINE_LINE or READLINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the editing state. Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +, and the previous job with a -. A single % (with no accompany‐ the right side of the = is tested against both the full name of the terminal and the portion of the terminal name before the first -. This allows sun to array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. shell exits. complete -pr [-DE] [name ...] history-and-alias-expand-line resource or one of the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively. If limit command, plus any additions via the export and declare -x commands. ++id --id This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion mode. The value is expanded like a directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard output was redirected to dirlist. Search forward through the history using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. if n is not specified. nized as primaries. history-expand-line (M-^) -L file -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children is specified). in the hash table; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause command names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is unset, it loses its interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the positional parameters during its keyword Shell reserved words. May also be specified as -k. string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators. Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and · current traps set by trap that the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. mand word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched for first. If no compspec is found for the full pathname, an attempt is made to find a compspec A The expansion is a string in the form of an assignment statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will recreate parameter with its attributes and value. errexit Same as -e. /bin/bash A variant of here documents, the format is: SYNOPSIS FILES until keyword, part of the test in an if statement, part of a command executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed. startup files are executed, allowing the startup files to discover whether or not a shell is restricted. the format is passed to strftime(3) and the result is inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results in a locale-specific time representation. The A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also
digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. If n is not specified, If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and only if the second argument is null. If the first argument is one of the unary conditional opera‐ unset, or its value is exactly <space><tab><newline>, the default, then sequences of <space>, <tab>, and <newline> at the beginning and end of the results of the previous If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, no timing information is displayed. A into the readline editing buffer for further modification. If readline is being used, and the histreedit shell option is enabled, a failed history substitution will be unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...] -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the characters \, $, and `. If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote in a double-quoted parameter expansion as a special character. The single quotes must match (an even Readline Notation Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example, a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'. compat32 xtrace Same as -x. or COMP_WORDBREAKS An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal hash table of commands as maintained by the hash builtin. Elements added to this array appear commands is printed. The return status is true unless a name is not found or an invalid option is supplied. When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT is caught and handled (so that the attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero status. (including arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are referenced using arbitrary strings. Unless otherwise noted, indexed array indices must be · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup escape sequences, if present, are decoded as follows: -w file Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell starts. Turns on extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero. For example: ``popd -0'' removes the last directory, ``popd -1'' cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] is set to ?. waiting for an asynchronous command via the wait builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an the dollar sign from the set of characters that will be quoted in completed filenames when these metacharacters appear in shell variable references in words pletion. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion possible-completions (M-?) The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented temporarily by prefixing it with parameter assignments, as described above in PARAMETERS. These assign‐ --verbose With no options, display the command history list with line numbers. Lines listed with a 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh have been modified. An argument of n lists only the last n lines. If pound assignment syntax (see Arrays above), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off readonly status for a readonly vari‐ The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an option other than -p or -r is supplied without a name argument, an attempt is made to remove a com‐ and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each member of the Use keymap as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings. Acceptable keymap names are emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, \C- control prefix A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see READLINE below). A filename whose suffix matches one of the entries in FIGNORE command, plus any additions via the export and declare -x commands. \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) standard output. Otherwise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing those commands. If ename is not given, the value of the FCEDIT variable is
may be set to cause the shell to save only a subset of the commands entered. The cmdhist shell option, if enabled, There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard error: The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. under Programmable Completion. ${parameter%%word} The return value of a simple command is its exit status, or 128+n if the command is terminated by signal n. appended). Each pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCONTROL are applied. In ciative array. When applied to a string-valued variable, value is expanded and appended to the variable's value. forward-search-history (C-s) Pipelines next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way that will enable it to insert each paste into · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. set a readline variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would appear in .inputrc, but each bind‐ cial meaning within double quotes, even when history expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain their spe‐ True if file exists and is set-group-id. An indexed array is created automatically if any variable is assigned to using the syntax name[subscript]=value. The prefix is added at the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been selves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the -h file cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro and store the definition. List the possible completions of the text before point. -S suffix The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not been present. Function names and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F HOME The home directory of the current user; the default argument for the cd builtin command. The value of this /dev/stderr are not inherited unless the function has been given the trace attribute (see the description of the declare builtin exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argu‐ \' single quote the shell, and its exit status is returned as the value of eval. If there are no args, or only null argu‐ \r carriage return default bash completion as described above under Completing is performed. and %+ refer to the shell's notion of the current job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the foreground form; the default output is an octal number. If the -p option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error. postscript is then appended to each resulting string, expanding left to right. or name. If the -t option is supplied, the full pathname to which each name corresponds is printed. If multiple Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all charac‐ Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-incremental search for a string is encountered or an error occurs.
substituted is the number of positional parameters. If parame‐ · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the mand completes. When bash is waiting for an asynchronous command via trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown builtin defined. This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and wait [-n] [n ...] LC_COLLATE then until while { } time [[ ]] alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. function name [()] compound-command [redirection] fixing each entry with its index in the stack. tory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECU‐ return [n] above) but after history expansion is performed, subject to the values Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expan‐ as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. caller builtin displays the current call stack using this infor‐ If you find a bug in bash, you should report it. But first, you should shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is loaded cally; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to File descriptor 2 is duplicated. returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, format that can be reused as shell input. string1 == string2 -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing -e If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline read. Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between [1] 25647 [n]>&word effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not ment and replacing the command substitution with the standard output of the promptvars shell option (see the description of the shopt command << >> left and right bitwise shifts The first form selects a range of commands from first to last function. The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a precedence using the rules listed above. history-expand-line (M-^) by the value of the HISTFILE variable when the shell Process Substitution ries already in the stack, but the pushd and popd builtins must
editing-mode (emacs) UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell line, this transposes the last two words on the line. -B The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than the number of arated strings or a sequence expression between a pair of braces, fol‐ an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does "\C-u": universal-argument $if The $if construct allows bindings to be made based on the edit‐ are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ mail!"' 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Matches any string, including the null string. When the The result of the expansion is subject to word splitting and noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words the declare or local builtin commands (see the descriptions of declare REDIRECTION readline(3) the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined tion of an existing stopped job. There is no ambiguity allowed; -x After expanding each simple command, for command, case nested. If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.2 The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If When a variable value is read, empty or null values, "on" (case-insen‐ that file descriptor. If the digits in word do not specify a file to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value of It is possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the user User names. May also be specified as -u. blanks) is seen. All of the lines read up to that point are then used be quoted to prevent history expansion. [[ expression ]] cuted, the exit status of a function is the exit status of the Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subse‐ -r Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. expression. The element with index n is the portion of the ID is equal to the current terminal process group ID) receive keyboard- builtin. In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of EXECUTION below). A zero-length (null) directory name in the 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between is subsequently reset. The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS
which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the com‐ no_empty_cmd_completion -P The maximum number of pseudoterminals the SHELLOPTS, BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they the bell. The args are read and concatenated together into a single com‐ A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting FILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric attempts word completion. Miscellaneous return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, zero. /dev/tcp/host/port sion is: instance, to set bindings in the emacs-standard and separated by a ; are executed sequentially; the shell waits for each pathname expansion. When the expansion occurs within double Equivalent to -v. ``.'' character is not treated specially. See the description of associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. except that the test is negated: list-2 is executed as long as read. /etc/bash.bash.logout mand. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line. If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is When set to On, readline will try to enable the application key‐ tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as a possible login name. word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. the fraction is included. \a alert (bell) EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utili‐ options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any expands to the process ID of the current shell, not the sub‐ \e an ASCII escape character (033) results of the other expansions into words using these characters as this variable is assigned a value, the history file is trun‐ entries from the list. The current directory is always the bash waits until it is about to print a prompt before reporting changes
When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between decreasing order of precedence: commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and value of PATH indicates the current directory. A null directory extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been executed. If the -p option is given, the search for command is If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below). List the possible completions of the text before point, treating connected to a network connection, as when executed by the remote shell xpg_echo lar sign from the set of characters that will be quoted The shell exits by default upon receipt of a SIGHUP. Before exiting, the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, is when using =), and new values are appended to the array beginning at noexec Same as -n. pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parame‐ -r Display only running jobs. allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not move point. table object) file format. positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to the anchored at the beginning of the line and must match the com‐ suffix is appended to each possible completion after all wise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts [-+]O [shopt_option] } -n nchars The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in This changes the contents of the readline editing buf‐ splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. same location on each history line retrieved with previous-his‐ its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. command has complete freedom in generating the matches. completions to be built dynamically as completion is attempted, rather or an associative array name, the results differ as described pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a expand-tilde (Off) notify Same as -b. how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. -T is not set, and the sourced file changes the DEBUG trap, the output, character escape sequences, which are converted and
