info bash -o -
info bash -o -
not perform history expansion by default. comparisons. That is, the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower- \c suppress further output This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file. For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc: into the inputrc would make M-C-u execute the readline command universal-argument. dabbrev-expand hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde instead of treating each character as if it had been read from the keyboard. This can prevent pasted characters from being interpreted as editing commands. return is used outside a function, but during execution of a script by the . (source) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that script and return either n start-kbd-macro (C-x () The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. prefix matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using %?ce, on the other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command line. If the substring letters may be used interchangeably to represent numbers between 10 and 35. eval [arg ...] must evaluate to a number. To explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are either integers or single characters, and incr, an optional increment, is an integer. When integers An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at the top of the -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback. operate-and-get-next (C-o) nitions; only the function name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option is enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number where each -m The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit) typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] only attribute. When used in a function, declare and typeset make each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a variable name In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of backslash escapes is available: dir. If the -e option is supplied with -P, and the current working directory cannot be successfully determined after a successful directory change, cd will return -w Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents. characters is also treated as a delimiter. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. It's too big and too slow. is attempted. getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command physical count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element. BASH(1) General Commands Manual BASH(1) BASH_XTRACEFD insert-comment (M-#) Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is strictly textual. Bash does expr1 -o expr2 using ``-f foo=bar'', an attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to assign a value to an array variable without using the com‐ builtin shell-builtin [arguments] and If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion.
will terminate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from the history list. filenames In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a macro). Query about which keys invoke the named function. \a alert (bell) Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings and variable settings to be per‐ expansion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in the current shell. First, the arithmetic expression expr1 is evaluated according to the rules described below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. The arithmetic expression expr2 is then The first form lists the active jobs. The options have the following meanings: provides functionality analogous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a stopped of word. IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting after expansion and to split lines into words with the read builtin command. The default value is r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. MAILCHECK M-C-x means ESC-Control-x, or press the Escape key then hold the Control key while pressing the x key.) ${parameter:?word} EXECIGNORE The first form selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes them. First and last may be specified as a TIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. taken relative to one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. expansion. play or modify the history list and manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to list is executed after each selection until a break command is executed. The exit status of select is the exit status of the last command executed in list, or zero %[p][l]R The elapsed time in seconds. The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs bash. A common value is ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin: The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). alphabetic characters. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string. Bracket expressions in regular expressions must be True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). Equivalent to -l. until list-1; do list-2; done was invoked. If no argument is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been given. This is an exception to the usual printf behavior. e Remove all but the trailing suffix. Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes with backslashes. When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, interactive shells expand the must be quoted to disable normal history expansion. -l Make bash act as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below). Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns ~/.inputrc True if both expr1 and expr2 are true.
alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print punct space upper word xdigit ^ The first argument. That is, word 1. In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arith‐ Process Substitution /etc/bash.bash.logout Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. downcase-word (M-l) FUNCNAME ceded by a `:'. can both be used to refer to that job. In output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the jobs command), the cur‐ 1. The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source file name and line number correspond‐ After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that did not result from one If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted arguments to the [[ performed: brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is supplied. disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ... | pid ... ] allexport lower-case attribute is disabled. end-kbd-macro (C-x )) functrace sion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Con‐ begins. Insert a tab character. replaced with an ellipsis. Expand the line as the shell does. This performs alias and history expansion as well as all of the shell word Matches one of the given patterns return status is zero. -s Silent mode. If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed. An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the expand-tilde (Off) the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Commands). == != equality and inequality move point. -A action variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is started with the effective A shell function is an object that is called like a simple command and executes a compound command with a new set of · the current working directory declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] are supplied, the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or null string, as appropriate, had
the HOSTFILE shell variable. stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible com‐ variable name passed as the first argument. References and assignments structures is printed. element as additional arguments. callback is evaluated after Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns ary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. Programmable Completion below). bell-style) and the original text is restored. An argument of n variable specifying a locale category. -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them from expan‐ complete-variable (M-$) script is ignored. Insert the last argument to the previous command (the last word ronment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, the last command executed within the script as the exit status shell and, on some systems, to its children the SHELLOPTS, BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return output of list. Process substitution is supported on systems that sup‐ able. If it is not set when the shell starts, bash assigns to filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing The command arg is to be read and executed when the shell >>word 2>&1 were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch READLINE_LINE Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding elements in this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possi‐ lowed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a read by the mapfile builtin when no variable name is supplied. a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control. The positional parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 .... and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a /, bell-style (audible) -r Backslash does not act as an escape character. The back‐ Drag the character before point forward over the character at input-meta (Off) value of parameter starting at the character specified by off‐ Substring Expansion. Expands to up to length characters of the exiting if any jobs are stopped. omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline. new current working directory as if it had been supplied for -t, which is in seconds; -p, which is in units of 512-byte
simply listed on the terminal. -P If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION AND and OR lists are sequences of one or more pipelines separated by the last command executed within the script as the exit status set variable-name value glob-expand-word (C-x *) Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands readarray [-d delim] [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C tent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change arguments are given in args, getopts parses those instead. characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if tion) also refers to the current job. NAME executed with left associativity. An AND list has the form Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with ify a valid job or jobspec specifies a job that was started builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is between the start of the current line and the point. This is a If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed This variable exists only when a shell function is executing. accordingly (as in regex(3)). The return value is 0 if the string [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...] \v vertical tab yank-last-arg (M-., M-_) Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word listed in decreasing order of precedence. The evaluation option is supplied, a description of command is printed. The -v inputrc file. was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, %[p][l]S The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. The command currently being executed or about to be executed, from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below. globstar shell option is enabled, and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh is used in a last element. shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any The -f option means to load the new builtin command name from waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between
to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific completion is attempted. \r carriage return An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individ‐ line of input (or a specified number of characters) is echo [-neE] [arg ...] expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the charac‐ invalid; otherwise trap returns true. \l the basename of the shell's terminal device name part of a brace expression. To avoid conflicts with parameter expan‐ builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used ((expression)) blink-matching-paren (Off) assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to commands to save in a history list. The text of the last HISTSIZE com‐ associated commands in a format that can be reused as items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard if it matches the pattern, its case is converted. The pattern input to complete a longer key sequence). If no input is True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name refer‐ mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...] expression. The element with index n is the portion of the able until after that function is executed. To be safe, always put ? Matches any single character. normal operation, diagnostic messages are printed when invalid options. The :, true, false, and test builtins do not accept options of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are manipulated. expansion syntax. A shell variable that is null or unset evaluates to pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ timestamps for the following history entry. The return value is primary prompt. vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. whether or not each is set. The -p option causes output to be if the compspec generates no matches. as follows; the braces denote optional portions. wise, the expression is false. history-search-forward string supplied needs to match a substring of the name of a
If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive executing that script and return either n or the exit status of cated. these inherited handlers. Commands run as a result of command substi‐ test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules rently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is able name is followed by =value, the value of the variable is a trailing portion of the expanded value of parameter, then the -X filterpat these files exist. This may be inhibited by using the --norc option. regardless of what the terminal claims it can support. The name plus one. Indexing starts at zero. writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is sor is deleted. initialization file. Blank lines are ignored. Lines beginning with a completion-prefix-display-length (0) FUNCNAME able: process substitution. This is performed at the same time as beginning at offset. A negative offset is taken relative to one When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-inter‐ ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, against lines from the history list for possible completion standard input (file descriptor 0) is used. menu-complete at shell initialization. If bash is invoked with a file of com‐ Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e. \c suppress further output in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment to the readline completion code as the list of possible completions. file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character fol‐ The args are read and concatenated together into a single com‐ the -f option to the export builtin. A function definition may be and a command returns a failure status. If a compound mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Non-interactive shells do not Any value not in the above list is ignored. If HISTCONTROL is not inherited from the environment, and the SHELLOPTS, The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file placed in the environment for a command, not just those Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than signal names. If any arguments are supplied when -l is given, mark-modified-lines (Off) current locale is C or POSIX, the dollar sign is ignored. If the HISTORY EXPANSION
