info bash -o -
info bash -o -
The general format for redirecting input is: shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the history file, otherwise the history file is overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history command Command names. May also be specified as -c. Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be omitted if string is followed immedi‐ Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. checkhash case ASCII characters will collate together. overwrite-mode tion of the shopt builtin below), and readline is being used, history substitutions are not immediately passed to the shell parser. Instead, the expanded line is reloaded If set to On, readline displays possible completions using different colors to indicate their file type. The color definitions are taken from the value of the 0 arguments add and remove directories. Assignment to this variable will not change the current directory. If DIRSTACK is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is completion-query-items (100) commands. If bash is invoked in this fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes the return status is that of the command re-executed, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, in which case fc returns failure. introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but True if the strings are equal. = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance. When used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as --login is attempted. -w Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents. mark-symlinked-directories (Off) hostcomplete and the remaining words are the arguments. If set to On, readline will display completions with matches sorted horizontally in alphabetical order, rather than down the screen. READLINE above). This is enabled by default. RANDOM. If RANDOM is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. [ expr ] the -o option to the set builtin command. With no options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or not If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the yank (C-y) matches more than one job, bash reports an error. The symbols %% and %+ refer to the shell's notion of the current job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the varname defines the file descriptor to close. -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. The last command in the history list is removed before the args are added. possible-completions (M-?) $if Bash · options enabled by shopt !?string[?] shell to forget all remembered locations. The -d option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of each name. If the -t option is supplied, the full described above (Compound Commands). OLDPWD The previous working directory as set by the cd command. logout Exit a login shell. plied, -A takes precedence. The read builtin accepts a -a option to assign a list of words read from the standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display
TION below). Event Designators test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules based on the number of arguments. PS3 The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). ger value greater than or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether or This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file. For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc: True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). able. If an attempt is made to set history-size to a non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be set to 500. bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] while reading the name of the current directory or an invalid option is supplied. -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). bash [options] [command_string | file] characters between offset and that result. Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by at least one space to avoid being confused with the :- posix mode is enabled. Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline variable. Each non-option argument is a Control-u: universal-argument braces are required Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (portable object) file format. negative argument to a command that acts in the forward direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to act in a backward direction. Commands whose behavior with argu‐ -k All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not just those that precede the command name. one may use filenames with tildes in assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the expanded value. Pattern Matching >word 2>&1 the default output is an octal number. If the -p option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is in a form that may be reused as input. The return status is builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed when the function is executed. The exit status of a function wait [-n] [n ...] behavior of the [, test, and [[ commands. Full pathnames in the command hash table are not subject to EXECIGNORE. Use this variable to ignore shared library files -f file COPYRIGHT t Remove all leading filename components, leaving the tail. Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow symbolic links and operate on the target of the link, rather than the link itself. array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word beginning part of the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined with the last part of the original word. This is analogous to the expansion of the Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to pre‐ list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known as a group command. The return status downcase-word (M-l) matching the search string typed so far. Any other key sequence bound to a readline command will terminate the search and execute that command. For instance, a newline Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the expand_aliases shell option is set using shopt (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COM‐
stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history ment when the function is executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an attempt to find a using the -n option to the unset builtin. Otherwise, if unset is executed with the name of a nameref variable as an !! Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for `!-1'. Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by backward-word. specify an associative array. If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence. The read builtin accepts a -a stty tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal by the kernel's terminal driver, which, is enabled. If -s is supplied, the output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return value is 0 \n new line option nullglob is not enabled, the word is left unchanged. If the nullglob option is set, and no matches are found, tive argument may be used to move backward through the list. This command is intended to be bound to TAB, but the descriptions of declare and local below) to create a nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as -n string Completing The command number and the history number are usually different: the history number of a command is its position in If a compound command or shell function executes in a context where -e is being ignored, none of the always put alias definitions on a separate line, and do not use alias in compound commands. treated specially. All tokens in the expression undergo parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and ignored. If HISTCONTROL is unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the shell parser are A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A coprocess is executed asynchronously in a nolog Currently ignored. -F function string ce in its command line. If the substring matches more than one job, bash reports an error. The symbols %% to the exec builtin command. An interactive shell does not exit if exec fails. Several characters inhibit history expansion if found immediately following the history expansion character, even if treated as values for the positional parameters and are assigned, in order, to $1, $2, ... $n. Options, if return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the last command used to determine the status is the last command exe‐ If parameter is @ or *, the operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is for destination directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is ".:~:/usr". M-# in emacs mode and to # in vi command mode. ~/.profile, in that order. The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interac‐ file1 -ot file2 Move back a character. The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary details how posix mode affects bash's behavior. provides functionality analogous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set to any other Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes with back‐ escape sequence. The default is Off, but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit charac‐ intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are
the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the read‐ ARITHMETIC EVALUATION. If expression is invalid, bash prints a message value of 2, and the shell is executing in a sub‐ arguments remaining after option processing are treated as val‐ startup files. This variable is read-only. (see HISTORY below) for lines containing a specified string. There are portions of the word following the cursor are not duplicated. enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems -r If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted -u The maximum number of processes available to a single possible-variable-completions (C-x $) 4. BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described will be affected by the -e setting, even if -e is set exits. shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argu‐ of the initial call is at the bottom. When a subroutine is exe‐ find all of the standard utilities. If either the -V or -v differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-gen‐ Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, This also affects the editing interface used for functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename ber, or one of the special characters listed below under Special Param‐ Each redirection that may be preceded by a file descriptor number may Any value not in the above list is ignored. If HISTCONTROL is If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as the dol‐ Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons. tions, point refers to the current cursor position, and mark refers to The list of shopt options is: possible-completions (M-?) move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or Parameters represented by the numbers $# down to $#-n+1 are with the next command in the list after one terminates command's return value is being inverted with !. If a Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell func‐ Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular It is not an error to use 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh if there is just one word in the nolog Currently ignored. When a quoted null argument appears as part of a word whose expansion trol sequence into the mode string.
primary prompt. command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which readonly function with the same name already exists. When exe‐ When @ is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, dard input. If the line consists of a number corresponding to CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS easy re-editing of multi-line commands. Compound Commands Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options are disabled (unset) cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir] the shell. The current set of options may be found in $-. The matching the previous history entry to not be saved. A value of and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. shell (see INVOCATION above). The value may not be If set, shell error messages are written in the standard zero. the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a string output is used as the possible completions. to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the the compspec generates no matches. lar sign from the set of characters that will be quoted read -e. UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell PIPESTATUS If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to regardless of what the terminal claims it can support. The name recursive calls. /etc/bash.bashrc ".:~:/usr". variable are defined. The shell function ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is of a simple command. When in posix mode, name may not be the Bash itself returns the exit status of the last command executed, in shell variable references in words to be completed. BUILTIN COMMANDS below), a word beginning with # causes that word and Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line. the context of the expansion or the text between the braces. invoked: Shell functions are declared as follows: enabled to that file descriptor. The file descriptor is closed
specified. kill-line (C-k) Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell compound command are not tested, and are added to the history stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to start non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p) specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not rec‐ unset. n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to -p prompt sion. pending output and typeahead to be discarded. the first non-option argument, and name is set to ?. words as readline would split it, using COMP_WORDBREAKS as script or function, the value substituted is not guaranteed to If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of varname defines so that typing ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ an option other than -p or -r is supplied without a name argu‐ input. taken. default. ``fc -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first other‐ and &, which have equal precedence. \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal %, it must match at the end of the expanded value of parameter. ignored, the shell does not exit. A trap on ERR, if The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the does not. -s Display only stopped jobs. *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of bers. Lines listed with a 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh have been modified. An argument of through the history as necessary. This is an incremental words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion The process of applying these completion specifications when sive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word comple‐ replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is a `~-', the value of There may be only one active coprocess at a time. tion call. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed +(pattern-list) compat41 When executing interactively, bash displays the primary prompt PS1 when -x Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern
the -l option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the begin‐ specified, the standard output (file descriptor 1) is used. If the builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the name is not found, Aliases are expanded when a function definition is read, not when the *(pattern-list) variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. Next, any command specified with the -C option is invoked in an envi‐ completion-query-items (100) zero) is at the top. It's too big and too slow. stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active. below). (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a string. Bracket expressions in regular expressions must be treated shell sets BASH_ARGV only when in extended debugging mode (see ties, even if it is subsequently reset. ${parameter/pattern/string} There may be only one active coprocess at a time. mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in ronment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, nullglob appearing in BASHOPTS are those reported as on by shopt. If restricted_shell INVOCATION If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. the value of the mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the to members of this array variable may be used to modify directo‐ mand completes. When bash is waiting for an asynchronous command via completions, one per line, to the standard output. Backslash may be -s option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following into the inputrc would make M-C-u execute the readline command univer‐ \E an escape character vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) Set to an integer value corresponding to the type of completion read. taining an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to matches. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with Use this variable to ignore shared library files that have the redraw-current-line True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name refer‐ function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly first -. This allows sun to match both sun and sun-cmd, -n Read the history lines not already read from the history
