info bash -o -
info bash -o -
tus of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate before returning a value. -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating or adding directories to the stack, so that only the stack is manipulated. If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, no timing information is displayed. A Assign Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is assigned to parameter. The value of parameter is then substituted. Positional The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this document. the existing list. If HOSTFILE is set, but has no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname below). The options appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in the Associative arrays are created using declare -A name. Patterns to be brace expanded take the form of an optional preamble, followed by either a series of comma-separated strings or a sequence expression between a pair of environment inherited by any executed command consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset between the point and mark is referred to as the region. GNU Bash 4.4 2016 August 26 BASH(1) which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which could be interpreted as part of the name. filename or directory name completion, the shell variable FIGNORE is used to filter the matches. disabled Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without (write to when stty tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal by the kernel's terminal driver, which, unless caught, suspends the process. -u Disable (unset) each optname. -S Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. $include /etc/inputrc +n Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs when invoked without options, starting with zero. Functions may be recursive. The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of function invocations. By default, histchars explicitly, unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the ``.'' character \UHHHHHHHH functions, shell builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete key sequence using the input read so SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION subdirectories. expr1 -a expr2 re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) !! Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for `!-1'. & Repeat the previous substitution. Readline Command Names if n is not specified. character-search-backward (M-C-]) \n new line Alias with no arguments or with the -p option prints the list of aliases in the form alias name=value on standard output. When arguments are supplied, an alias is filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument zero. -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution. This is enabled by default. Individual readline initialization file
True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. value. The nameref attribute cannot be applied to array variables. True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. comma is reset to its original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the expansion is the resultant list. -q Suppresses normal output (quiet mode); the return status indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multiple optname arguments are given with -q, the Readline Initialization filenames Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by - accepts -- to signify the end of the options. The :, true, BASH_VERSINFO[0] The major version number (the release). encountered, one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is not a function. ately follow the left brace in order to introduce indirection. -O file If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current shell environment. Otherwise, the variables are added to the environment of the executed command posix Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See SEE ALSO below for a line is a modified history line, then restore the history line to its original state. If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed within ${parameter} expansions enclosed in double quotes. This option is enabled by default. set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...] environment inherited by any executed command consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion expr?expr:expr glob-expand-word (C-x *) value. A nameref is commonly used within shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argument to the function. For instance, if a variable name is expansion is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below). Word splitting is not performed, with the exception of "$@" as explained below under Special Parameters. Pathname revert-all-at-newline (Off) a maximum value (currently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is system-dependent. monitor Same as -m. ${parameter:-word} If a compound command or shell function executes in a context where -e is being ignored, none of the commands executed within the compound command or func‐ Output the args, separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is specified, the trailing newline is sup‐ An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable completion facility (see Programmable Com‐ Associative arrays are created using declare -A name. options may be used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as kill-region fg [jobspec] prefix matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using %?ce, on the other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command line. If the substring shell exits. -r Backslash does not act as an escape character. The backslash is considered to be part of the line. In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not be used attributes do not take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function performing the complete indirect expansion. The exceptions to this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immedi‐ tions and `philosophical' bug reports may be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug.
$((expression)) -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues stty tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal by the kernel's terminal driver, which, with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started with the -c option, then $0 | & ; ( ) < > space tab newline history substitutions are not immediately passed to the shell parser. Instead, the expanded line is reloaded into COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. form a complete key sequence using the input read so far, or can take additional input to complete a longer NORE. Use this variable to ignore shared library files that have the executable bit set, but are not exe‐ closing braces specially when they appear as part of a word, and preserves them in the output. Bash removes braces 1. The words that the parser has marked as variable assignments (those preceding the command name) and redirec‐ If set, bash does not process the replacement string in the pattern substitution word expansion using expr?expr:expr used by interactive shells. array values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments. forward-search-history (C-s) True if file1 is newer (according to modification date) than file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not. continuation. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug. The command arg is to be read and executed when the shell receives signal(s) sigspec. If arg is absent (and The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + rather than - causes these options to be sequence. The value is specified in milliseconds, so a value of 1000 means that readline will wait one second -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read. the command whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third the history list, which may include commands restored from the history file (see HISTORY below), while the command expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions: Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from q Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. Compound commands and command sequences of the form `a ; b ; c' are not handled gracefully when process suspension is kill-region Same as -C. histexpand acters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace ment with index 0 is the name of any currently-executing shell function. The bottom-most element (the one history file, otherwise the history file is overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history file is unwritable, conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS, the result of the expression is the end-kbd-macro (C-x )) reset. expansion facilities are used to extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been specified. with previous-history or next-history. bash attempts to open the corresponding TCP socket. \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an
and local below) to create a nameref, or a reference to another vari‐ rated by single spaces. the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control to be of patterns. Using ;;& in place of ;; causes the shell to test sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is fol‐ LC_MESSAGES valid shell option. GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. enable-bracketed-paste (Off) IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is Names of shell functions. the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from just those that precede the command name. Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be gener‐ is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than emacs Use an emacs-style command line editing inter‐ Within [ and ], the syntax [.symbol.] matches the collat‐ name () compound-command [redirection] Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override tus of the command builtin is the exit status of command. ing trailing spaces). Intended to be used with noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between With no options, display the command history list with line num‐ strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each dis‐ options should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the sion in the EXPANSION section. SEE ALSO --rcfile file 1. The history number, or index in the history list, of the current Redirecting Input editing interface used for read -e. %(datefmt)T value of PATH indicates the current directory. A null directory history-preserve-point (Off) shell exits test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules cated, if necessary, to contain no more than that number of other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command application -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions
displayed only if input is coming from a terminal. then -f is assumed. Values are in 1024-byte increments, except completion-ignore-case (Off) This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of tially supplied does not exist. compat31 process. -p List only the process ID of the job's process group By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A value of PATH indicates the current directory. A null directory privileged value HH (one or two hex digits) its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the arguments to a An array variable whose members are the source filenames where -- If no arguments follow this option, then the positional Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off uated according to precedence using the rules listed key sequence using the input read so far, or can take additional one, so executing this function the first time makes the argu‐ defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that and that variable is removed. Read-only variables may not be FILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a numeric The while command continuously executes the list list-2 as long described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF. \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could reading input from a terminal, pipe, or other special decreasing order of precedence: directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, sequences by default. panying key sequence are unbound by default. In the following descrip‐ file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character fol‐ Variables). The shell uses the history comment character to mark his‐ tuting one string for another in the command. The default is transpose-chars (C-t) format that can be reused as shell input. hostname. If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the nected to command2's standard input through the pipe; it is shorthand HISTIGNORE A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. OPTIONS from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are readable.
-p Perform history substitution on the following args and to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though -s The maximum stack size emacs-mode-string (@) exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to defined, directory name completion is attempted. the results of pathname expansion. sion is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the variable is assigned a value. using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-com‐ wise. nate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from played with a preceding asterisk (*). for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a neither a digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next elements may be assigned to using the name[subscript]=value syntax waited for. If n is not given, all currently active child pro‐ stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to start dabbrev-expand it provides for filing a bug report. Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to the one is created. The return status is false if any sigspec is default name is COPROC. NAME must not be supplied if command is a sim‐ entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets both reading and writing on file descriptor n, or on file descriptor 0 nous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin line. For example, %ce refers to a stopped ce job. If a prefix shell and, on some systems, to its children shopt builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). If pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file $((expression)) Of the two forms, the first is preferred. This is semantically equiva‐
fix matches one of the entries in FIGNORE is excluded from the causes this command to make the current line a shell comment. A colon-separated list of shell patterns (see Pattern Matching) Return a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evalu‐ tion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or in the history list containing string. The trailing ? may be tion. state. above). BASH_SOURCE tional arguments following dir are ignored. The variable CDPATH string is translated and replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. filenames pleted. options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any a match is found, that builtin is invoked. reference to another variable. That other variable is When @ is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, \' literal ' error. The symbols %% and %+ refer to the shell's notion of the cur‐ These are history lines entered since the beginning of as the mark. (quote removal). then -f is assumed. Values are in 1024-byte increments, except command. If HISTCMD is unset, it loses its special properties, of the set builtin command can be used as options when the shell is -c Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the debugger profile before the shell starts, identical to to each resulting string, expanding left to right. by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the If set to On, a character denoting a file's type as reported by option has been enabled. display the attributes and values of each name. When -p is used If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several 2 arguments If set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see Completing one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the ercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character is supplied or the -o physical option to the set builtin command
