info bash -o -
info bash -o -
-p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, and the SHEL‐ the return status is that of the command re-executed, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, in which case fc returns failure. BASH_VERSION issue when functions are executed. Aliases are expanded when a function definition is read, not when the function is executed, because a function definition is itself a Arithmetic Expansion greater than, or greater than or equal to arg2, respectively. Arg1 and arg2 may be positive or negative integers. \! the history number of this command original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined with the last part of the original word. When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ nocaseglob This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command mode. The value is expanded like a key Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, any existing history entries are deleted and no new entries are saved. If set 2 arguments Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing newline, before attempting to read any input. The prompt is displayed only if input is coming from a NAME message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the jobs and their statuses. The jobs command may then be used to inspect their status. If a second attempt to True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. file1 -nt file2 echo [-neE] [arg ...] declare -n ref=$1 posix Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See SEE ALSO below for a Readline Key Bindings Without options, remove each jobspec from the table of active jobs. If jobspec is not present, and neither the -a nor the -r option is supplied, the current job is ments beginning with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options interpret arguments beginning with - as non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n) user's login shell. comma AND and OR lists are sequences of one or more pipelines separated by the && and || control operators, respectively. AND and OR lists are executed with left associativity. When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that is unset or null. Omitting the colon results in a HISTFILE When available, process substitution is performed simultaneously with parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. treated carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between brackets. If the pattern is stored in a shell variable, quoting the variable expansion yank-pop (M-y) EXECIGNORE If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and only if the second argument is null. If the first argument is one of the unary conditional opera‐ Within [ and ], character classes can be specified using the syntax [:class:], where class is one of the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in defined with the -f option to the export builtin. A function definition may be deleted using the -f option to the unset builtin. Note that shell functions and variables SECONDS non-negative integers. attempt to match more than one character. The ^ operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase let‐ Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. &>>word RESERVED WORDS attributes do not take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function blink-matching-paren (Off)
Modifiers If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the results. HISTSIZE The GLOBIGNORE shell variable may be used to restrict the set of filenames matching a pattern. If GLOBIGNORE is set, each matching filename that also matches one of the if one is available. If set to audible, readline attempts to ring the terminal's bell. Same as -E. name. Bash uses a hash table to remember the full pathnames of executable files (see hash under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). A full search of the directories in PATH is in the expanded value. If pattern is omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. If parameter is @ or *, the case modification operation is redraw-current-line filenames for possible completions. getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting is used. In normal operation, diagnostic messages are name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option implies -f. The -g option forces variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare is kill-line (C-k) LOPTS, BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is started with the effective user (group) execute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option has no effect. A non-interactive shell invoked with the name sh does not attempt to read any other Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands This variable determines the locale category used for data and time formatting. let arg [arg ...] PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and before the command is executed. chronously, and its input or output appears as a filename. This filename is passed as an argument to the current command as the result of the expansion. If the >(list) job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the %string job identifier. Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See SEE ALSO below for a reference to a letters may be used interchangeably to represent numbers between 10 and 35. characters is also treated as a delimiter. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. comparison Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value substituted is the number of positional PS3 The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). ignored). executed in a shell function. It is ignored in all other cases. The following options can be used to restrict output to variables with the specified attribute or braces, followed by an optional postscript. The preamble is prefixed to each string contained within the braces, and the postscript is then appended to each resulting Drag the character before point forward over the character at point, moving point forward as well. If point is at the end of the line, then this transposes the two ${parameter^pattern} the characters in IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below). equivalent to --. ing the bell. following the cursor are not duplicated. command. As a consequence, aliases defined in a function are not available until after that function is executed. To be safe, always put alias definitions on a separate Return a status of 0 or 1 depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression expression. Expressions are composed of the primaries described below under CON‐ empty or null values, "on" (case-insensitive), and "1" are equivalent to On. All other values are equivalent to Off. The variables and their default values are: -T The maximum number of threads
starting with zero. one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are redirected as described previously. universal-argument status is 0. used, writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form is used, the file passed as an argument menu-complete-display-prefix (Off) the history list, which may include commands restored from the history file (see HISTORY below), while the command An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of FUNC‐ -p Display readline function names and bindings in such a way that they can be re-read. If command cannot be executed for some reason, a non-interactive shell exits, unless the execfail shell option Move to the start of the current line. for command: keyword Same as -k. Aliases are confusing in some uses. complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default This pattern is used to generate a list of matching filenames for possible completions. -k All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see EXPANSION below). If the -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating or adding directories to the stack, so that mands). When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or more instances of the command builtin is invoked. UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. of equal-precedence operators. The levels are listed in order of decreasing precedence. command's return value is being inverted with !. If a compound command other than a subshell returns non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n) True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO). -s The maximum stack size the directory containing dir: each directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Alternative directory names The bash executable $endif This command, as seen in the previous example, terminates an $if command. Modifiers commands, the (( compound command, and Arithmetic Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed-width integers with no specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when with the jobs command. When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a line that looks like: or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are simply listed on the terminal. without intervening separators. preamble, followed by either a series of comma-separated strings or a sequence expression between a pair of braces, is specified, or the directory change fails. causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semicolons mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise. ``> ''. Readline Key Bindings
alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pat‐ printed. The -S option causes the mask to be printed in sym‐ enabled Names of enabled shell builtins. which case fc returns failure. When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way search string becomes the current line. dence is used when there are five or more arguments. nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the given the export attribute and marked for export to the bolic form; the default output is an octal number. If the -p - + unary minus and plus in a double-quoted parameter expansion as a special in a double-quoted string. INPUTRC OPTIND The index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts If bash is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup name of one of the POSIX special builtins. Any redirections and not during execution of a script by . or source. Any com‐ Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed mands from the file /etc/profile, if that file exists. After reading promptvars non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be is unbound by default. the bell. string, any remembered search string is used. default completion function would load completions dynamically: The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard default). PLY array variable. fashion when performing matching while executing case or removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. either. This is active only when bash is using back‐ mal number with a fractional portion following the deci‐ writes to. Redirection may also be used to modify file handles in the Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, BUG REPORTS or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each posi‐ Enable and disable builtin shell commands. Disabling a builtin parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special \t horizontal tab -s Store the args in the history list as a single entry. completions alphabetically.
Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are delimited Search forward through the history using a non-incremental errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command line. When the search is terminated, the history entry containing the as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null arguments, resulting from the is the event, and the portions of that line that are acted upon are 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular tion specification with the same flags. If word is specified, EXIT is executed before the shell terminates. or zero if no commands were executed. or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the Non-numeric values and numeric values less than zero inhibit to insert characters like C-q, for example. If set to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it the first character of a word, normally `#'. The history com‐ PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION SEE ALSO and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than the this state. IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly variable are defined. The shell function ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is The shell scans the results of parameter expansion, command substitu‐ The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The expr1 , expr2 the results of pathname expansion. Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set \a an ASCII bell character (07) errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Note that when using The individual per-interactive-shell startup file soft limit of the resource is printed, unless the -H option is using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the decimal number representing the current sequential line number mapped to self-insert. ${parameter[offset]}. A negative offset is taken relative to Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, given the export attribute and marked for export to the If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to cutes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not LC_TIME pletions. Enable and disable builtin shell commands. Disabling a builtin functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple iden‐ when the format string is displayed.
Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted routine (a shell function or a shell script exe‐ If a shell function is being invoked, the COMP_WORDS and COMP_CWORD tus of the last command executed in the script. If no commands are ${parameter:offset} Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is per‐ expansion of the items following in results in an empty list, no application how posix mode affects bash's behavior. first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', value is printed before each command bash displays during an or <newline>. A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by startup files. -f Use function names only. -t fd True if file descriptor fd is open and refers to a terminal. -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used BASH_CMDS If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first character-search-backward (M-C-]) Arrays fails. When set to On, readline will try to enable the application key‐ line. The delimiter may be quoted in old and new with a single ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX the control operators | or |&. The format for a pipeline is: menu-complete-display-prefix (Off) are given, or if only -l is supplied, information about remem‐ variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the -o errtrace shell tion, by the set builtin command, or those set by the shell punct space upper word xdigit value. The null string is a valid value. +0'' removes the first directory, ``popd +1'' the second. The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS a valid value. Once a variable is set, it may be unset only by using pipefail scripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is applied login_shell be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v Since the coprocess is created as an asynchronous command, the coproc the last command beginning with that string) or as a number (an for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a next-history (C-n) names during word completion if the directory name ini‐ display the attributes and values of each name. When -p is used the list with the pushd command; the popd command removes line uses the current (or default, if line editing was using or changing the -n attribute itself, are performed
matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. set. If parameter is @, an indexed array subscripted by @ or *, a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from the background into the recreate parameter with its attributes and value. executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that con‐ trap handler. if return is executed during a DEBUG trap, the accept-line (Newline, Return) Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently HISTSIZE after reading any startup files. An indexed array is created automatically if any variable is assigned taken. jobs. If jobspec is not present, and neither the -a nor the -r tem on which bash is executing. The default is system-depen‐ sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time a shell string which is one of alias, keyword, function, builtin, or found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument assigned to $0 and any remaining arguments are assigned to immediately. Any trap on SIGCHLD is executed for each child that -l When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case \n new line The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is complete-command (M-!) used. The -P option causes cd to use the physical directory to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit success‐ directories in which the shell looks for commands (see COMMAND Redirecting Standard Output and Standard Error tiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indi‐ the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted. If the char‐ default. If offset is 0, and the positional parameters are -f Disable pathname expansion. Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key The shell allows control over which commands are saved on the history keymap (emacs) direction error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is character. The single quotes must match (an even num‐ is pushed onto BASH_ARGC. The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in nolog Currently ignored. the exit status of command. no args, or only null arguments, eval returns 0. the pattern substitution word expansion using quote
