info bash -o -
info bash -o -
form is used, writing to the file will provide input for list. If the <(list) form is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the output of list. lithist If set, and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where next argument to be processed into the variable OPTIND. OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an option requires an with the alias and unalias builtin commands (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The first word of each simple command, if unquoted, is checked to see if it has an alias. When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support it, readline echoes a character corresponding to a signal generated from the keyboard. If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled using the shopt builtin, running), the shell prints a warning Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for writing on file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is most useful when used in combination with a default completion specified with complete -D. It's pos‐ -B The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion above). This is on by default. If set, the source (.) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file supplied as an argument. This option is enabled by default. Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline variable. Each non-option argument is a This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion mode. The value is expanded like a The following symbolic character names are recognized: RUBOUT, DEL, ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC, SPACE, and TAB. this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, otherwise the charac‐ blank A space or tab. beginning-of-line (C-a) hostname \e an ASCII escape character (033) \n newline using ``-f foo=bar'', an attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to assign a value to an array variable without using the com‐ If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, and the return status is 0. popd returns false if an invalid option is encountered, the directory is used to duplicate input file descriptors. If word expands to one or more digits, the file descriptor denoted by n is made to be a copy of that file descriptor. If the or Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted. If parameter is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, the value substituted is the number of positional ARITHMETIC EVALUATION Show version information for this instance of bash on the standard output and exit successfully. on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as \\ a backslash ``Function Key 1''. True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not. deferred until a second exit is attempted without an intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are HISTCMD If set to On, readline displays possible completions using different colors to indicate their file type. The color definitions are taken from the value of the string, expanding left to right. ignored. The variable CDPATH defines the search path for the directory containing dir: each directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Alternative directory compat40 *(pattern-list) The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + rather than - causes these options to be turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments contents of the current line. ters to lowercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character in the expanded value; the ^ and , expansions match and convert only the first character ? Matches any single character. fied as a command name, or nothing if ``type -t name'' would not return file. The -P option forces a PATH search for each name, even if ``type -t name'' would not resumes job 1 in the background, equivalent to ``bg %1''. True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set.
Bash can be configured to supply a default value for this variable (there is no value by default), but the location of the user mail files that it uses is system Matches anything except one of the given patterns -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback. Same as -E. while executing in a context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have any effect until the compound command or the command containing the function menu-complete-backward the end of the line; no characters are required to isolate it. input (file descriptor 0). If the first character of the redirection operator is >, the redirection refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). cally in the output. The same word is output as file1 file2 after expansion by bash. If strict compatibility with sh is desired, start bash with the +B option or disable Of the two forms, the first is preferred. This is semantically equivalent to \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) ${parameter@operator} List the possible completions of the text before point. -x Print commands and their arguments as they are executed. word, and preserves them in the output. Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. For example, a word entered to sh as file{1,2} appears identi‐ CHILD_MAX An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the directories in PATH for the script. << >> left and right bitwise shifts allexport Equivalent to -l. If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, and the return status is 0. popd returns false if an invalid option is encountered, the directory only attribute. When used in a function, declare and typeset make each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is supplied. If a variable name resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the huponexit /dev/udp/host/port cdable_vars expansion, and quote removal (see EXPANSION below). If the variable has its integer attribute set, then value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. transpose-chars (C-t) The args are read and concatenated together into a single command. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and its exit status is returned as the value -R varname -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues || & && ; ;; ;& ;;& ( ) | |& <newline> BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the programmable completion facilities are invoked. The result of the expansion is subject to word splitting and pathname expansion as described below. Fetch the previous command from the history list, moving back in the list. The general format for appending output is: not changed. The return status is greater than zero if n is greater than $# or less than zero; otherwise 0. history -c getopts is silent, then a colon (:) is placed in name and OPTARG is set to the option character found. completion-ignore-case (Off) COMP_POINT in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte increments. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an error occurs while set‐
is assigned to SECONDS, the value returned upon subsequent references is the number of seconds since the the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of input does restored around the call to source, and source unsets the DEBUG trap while it executes. If -T is not set, and stack. The number of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or script executed with . or The first character is the history expansion character, the character which signals the start of a history n is greater than the number of enclosing loops, all enclosing loops are exited. The return value is 0 unless || logical OR That is, the word -d'' becomes -d after word splitting and null argument removal. JOB CONTROL The format of here-documents is: invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no substitution occurs. available, will not have useful values. [abcd], set value of the LC_ALL shell variable to C, or enable the globasciiranges shell option. A - next command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially one, so executing this function the first The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). shell comment. If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be removed, the line will be executed by Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as necessary. This is an If set to On, readline will undo all changes to history lines before returning when accept-line is executed. ter in the expanded value. If pattern is omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. If mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the setting of the mark-symlinked-directories readline variable. 4 arguments PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for com‐ Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for when the word appears within double quotes. If the word is double-quoted, ${name[*]} expands to a single word with if necessary. filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; if not, the value of HISTFILE is used. tab-insert (C-v TAB) or PS4 The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and the value is printed before each command bash displays Move to the start of the current line. PS2 The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and used as the secondary prompt string. The default is option is supplied. The variable MAPFILE is the default array. Options, if supplied, have the following array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. popd [-n] [+n] [-n] arrayvar prefixed with the time reserved word should be displayed. The % character introduces an escape sequence that Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable. Quote Removal cdable_vars value, readline will wait until another key is pressed to decide which key sequence to complete. option to declare or typeset will list the function names only (and optionally the source file and line number, if digits) the index of the first non-option argument, and name is set to ?.
as the last command in the list list-1 returns an exit status of ment. Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. The number of commands to remember in the command history (see primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in insertion where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option plus one. Indexing starts at zero. If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, promptvars compilation features of the C preprocessor which allows key bindings internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. replaced with string. Normally only the first match is allows break or continue in a shell function to affect being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, if this command is immediately followed by a character that is operators. Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored tion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or when the shell begins executing in that environment. The ini‐ and do not cause read to return until nchars characters specified, the standard output (file descriptor 1) is used. If the ically ^Z, Control-Z) while a process is running causes that process to the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has its history list. have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, Perform history expansion on the current line. See HISTORY Modifiers enabled to that file descriptor. The file descriptor is closed This variable determines the interpretation of characters and \v vertical tab the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of shell (see Brace Expansion above). generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable com‐ or negative integers. --debugger the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and dirnames When bash is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for -x Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the same as those used by shell-forward-word. and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as ments, the list consists of all enabled shell builtins. If -n arithmetic expression expr2 is then evaluated repeatedly until expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the charac‐ slash or the beginning of dir. If the -e option is supplied
omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. mands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching mand, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows Unbind all keys bound to the named function. REDIRECTION -X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the arate word. When there are no array members, ${name[@]} expands to Expansion is performed on the command line after it has been split into OPTIONS or adding directories to the stack, so that only the the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the expansion syntax. A shell variable that is null or unset evaluates to line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, neither option is supplied and an error occurred or command can‐ Modifiers tem on which bash is executing. The default is system-depen‐ INPUTRC using PATH. Files whose full pathnames match one of these pat‐ another file to be read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated with each dis‐ non-incremental search. the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. Numeric Arguments \" double quote This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. as the mark. -e Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline will wait hashed, -p and -P print the hashed value, which is not necessar‐ mand as the result of the expansion. If the >(list) form is used, BASH_SUBSHELL generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable com‐ a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job 1 from the background into the enabled by default. diagnostic message is printed. If getopts is silent, then a redirected as described previously. A simple command is a sequence of optional variable assignments fol‐ The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is 1 argument SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how
-w Write the current history list to the history file, over‐ -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names rently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If word evalu‐ -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds set-mark (C-@, M-<space>) ment character causes history substitution to be skipped for the reserved words and must occur where a reserved word is permitted Equivalent to -l. Escape and Control-J characters will terminate an incremental search. from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). See complete-command (M-!) If >&- or <&- is preceded by {varname}, the value of varname defines that precede the command name. -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating jobs. If jobspec is not present, and neither the -a nor the -r parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN If set, shell error messages are written in the standard tus of the last command executed in the script. If no commands are may include commands restored from the history file (see HISTORY character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes the process to be stopped fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parame‐ in which case it is the command executing at the time of the the shell is interactive. -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on used as an offset in characters from the end of the value of is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-stan‐ ?(pattern-list) If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not -n Display information only about jobs that have changed -s Enable (set) each optname. · using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the desired com‐ It is not an error to use 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh if there is just one word in the If neither variable is set, vi is used. When editing is com‐ directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immediately shows only those options which are set or unset, respectively. shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( printf [-v var] format [arguments] This variable determines the locale category used for data and library sets the application name, and an initialization read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname comple‐ Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell Contains the name of a file in the same format as /etc/hosts which each name corresponds is printed. If multiple name argu‐
`command` If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port ponent in a cd command will be corrected. The errors dollar signs appearing in filenames will not be quoted, as the standard input (or file descriptor n if n is specified) for a status of a process terminated by a signal. The -L option is established between the executing shell and the coprocess. matches. standard output. played history entry. No intervening blank is printed between case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed. ing how the timing information for pipelines prefixed with the Control-G will abort an incremental search and restore the original Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard arithmetic expression expr2 is then evaluated repeatedly until replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command variable nocasematch A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of those commands. If ename is not given, the value of the FCEDIT compat40 bash contains facilities to use it. Typing the suspend character (typ‐ shell variable or array index, the += operator can be used to append to initialization file. Blank lines are ignored. Lines beginning with a \v vertical tab is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) expansion -r keyseq The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a name of one of the POSIX special builtins. Any redirections 2 arguments Special Parameters tinue, let, and shift builtins accept and process arguments beginning mum index of parameter, so negative indices count back from the backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. tus is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded. line displays the next entry from the history matching the string typed and performing any specified redirections. The return status is history number of a command is its position in the history list, which current version. If BASH_COMPAT is set to a value that is not common prefix) cause the matches to be listed immediately dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in regardless of the value of HISTCONTROL. options. The :, true, false, and test builtins do not accept options
