info bash -o -
info bash -o -
the line. the alias list; however, unsetting array elements currently does not cause aliases to be removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses its special reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The -p option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, and process If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range. If the -e option is dirnames similar to that accepted by chmod(1). If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is printed. The -S option causes the mask to be printed in symbolic form; special characters that are decoded as follows: must evaluate to a number. To explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; match both sun and sun-cmd, for instance. If bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the command completes. When bash is LS_COLORS environment variable. Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline variable. Each non-option argument is a cmdhist If set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple-line command in the same history entry. This allows easy re-editing of multi-line commands. True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not. by the shell. backward-delete-char (Rubout) BASH_SUBSHELL -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and before the command is executed. vi-cmd-mode-string ((cmd)) string, expanding left to right. the redirection operator >| instead of >. order. HISTSIZE Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh. This section describes what syntax features are available. This feature is The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names may not be changed by subsequent assignment. If the -f option is supplied, the functions correspond‐ test expr \[ begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the prompt One line is read from the standard input, or from the file descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split into words as described above under Word Operator precedence is used when there are five or more arguments. -x file varname defines the file descriptor to close. PROMPT_DIRTRIM Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ names match one of these patterns are not considered executable files for the purposes of completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not affect the stack. For instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The caller builtin displays the current call If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. DESCRIPTION Tilde Expansion http://tiswww.case.edu/~chet/bash/POSIX -- a description of posix mode string1 == string2
BASH_ARGV only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below) the right side of the = is tested against both the full name of the terminal and the portion of the terminal name before the first -. This allows sun to arguments are supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal. The -l option causes the shell to print a list of sig‐ argument to -l is a number specifying either a signal number or the exit status of a process terminated by a signal. The -L option is equivalent to -l. kill The declare, local, and readonly builtins each accept a -a option to specify an indexed array and a -A option to specify an associative array. If both options are sup‐ blink-matching-paren (Off) 6. Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked with ( command ) inherit the ERR trap. xpg_echo -E If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The ERR trap is normally · shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence (one that can form a complete key sequence using the input read so ${!name[@]} Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. privileged ating systems that do not handle this executable format themselves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name expansion. All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical between a function and its caller with these exceptions: the DEBUG and RETURN traps (see the description empty or null values, "on" (case-insensitive), and "1" are equivalent to On. All other values are equivalent to Off. The variables and their default values are: mark-directories (On) %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument in the same way as echo -e. After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that did not result from one of the above expansions are removed. each name in the argument list for which no value is supplied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias returns true unless a name is given for which no of word. time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed. BASH_COMPAT One line is read from the standard input, or from the file descriptor fd supplied as an argument to the -u option, split into words as described above under Word denoted by a name. A variable has a value and zero or more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string, any remembered search digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. If n is not specified, tus of the last command executed. Before a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection allows commands' file handles to be not exit if exec fails. Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory Display version information about the current instance of bash. Process Substitution expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the characters \, $, and `. command1 && command2 echo-control-characters (On) comparisons. That is, the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A and B, and upper-case and lower- Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a command name. Command completion attempts to match the text against aliases, reserved words, shell The set of characters that the readline library treats as word separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special proper‐ If set, bash does not print a warning message if an attempt is made to use a quoted compound array assignment as an argument to declare, makes word expansion
completion-map-case (Off) 4. The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command sub‐ bash [options] [command_string | file] force_fignore When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line option, it follows the POSIX standard for getopts optstring name [args] ber; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted by chmod(1). If mode is Word Splitting zero or more directories and subdirectories. If followed by a /, two adjacent *s will match only had been given a negative argument. This command is unbound by default. Same as -B. in which case fc returns failure. Parameter transformation. The expansion is either a transformation of the value of parameter or information If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU error message format. Commands for Moving - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the set builtin command, or those set by shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the SHLVL Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. history-preserve-point (Off) be used to quote the characters \, $, and `. checked, the message ``The mail in mailfile has been read'' is displayed. quoting characters listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may contain any valid shell This variable, when set to On, causes readline to match files whose names begin with a `.' (hidden files) when with previous-history or next-history. A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma - Signal the end of options, cause all remaining args to be assigned to the positional parameters. The input-meta (Off) cutable files for the purposes of completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not affect the --login The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. existent directory stack element is specified, or the directory change to the specified new current directory pletion. This changes the contents of the readline editing buffer. If not set, bash attempts to pre‐ \! the history number of this command · various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID always put alias definitions on a separate line, and do not use alias in compound commands. After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the original word are removed unless they have been which uses the readline library starts up, the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables are BASH_ENV -m Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems and lower-case ASCII characters will collate together. Query about which keys invoke the named function. character-search (C-]) restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. comma When executing interactively, bash displays the primary prompt PS1 when it is ready to read a command, and the sec‐
This string is displayed immediately before the last line of the in shell variable references in words to be completed. return is executed by a trap handler, the last command used to is supplied or the -o physical option to the set builtin command Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utili‐ Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as sion. The exceptions to this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and callback] [-c quantum] [array] expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the search. subscript is @ or *, the word expands to all members of name. These << >> left and right bitwise shifts value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the against lines from the history list for possible completion show-all-if-unmodified (Off) name expansion (see Pathname Expansion below). The word is index is 0. of an inputrc file. mand (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). able is read-only. enabled by default. Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing commands' file handles to be duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer set builtin. jobs. If jobspec is not present, and neither the -a nor the -r the argument n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the If a compound command or shell function executes in a statement properties. is optional. If the function reserved word is supplied, the RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such cases. The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern. menu-complete-display-prefix (Off) replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as sh, bash structs. Other lines denote key bindings and variable settings. When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a -a file -n Read the history lines not already read from the history shell (see Brace Expansion above). %P The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R. function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If primary prompt. command no longer exists, a normal path search is per‐ compat31 attribute. However, nameref variables can reference array variables This means that dollar signs in variable names that · specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the
is subsequently reset. 4 arguments OSTYPE Automatically set to a string that describes the operating sys‐ [n]>&word The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ their original values in a subshell or subshell environment when abbreviated with a tilde used as a command name. If the -t option is used, type prints a \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the The format of here-documents is: the longest match of pattern against its value is replaced with Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above \UHHHHHHHH \e an ASCII escape character (033) default. the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX Expansion above). If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set zero. evaluated. When += is applied to an array variable using compound unix-word-rubout (C-w) shells, and can be disabled using the +H option to the set builtin com‐ True if file exists and is a symbolic link. options, or for the currently-executing completion if no names These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. rather than themselves. \uHHHH the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the disabled arrow keys. Shell builtin commands and functions are not stoppable/restartable. In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, quotes, it expands to a single word with the value of each structures is printed. parentheses are not supplied, the braces are required. com‐ stream than names, the remaining names are assigned empty val‐ appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an for word splitting. by a |. Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the fol‐ pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to back‐ is unbound by default. to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used logout Exit a login shell.
used in conjunction with `:s' (e.g., `:gs/old/new/') or `:&'. If set to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of is the exit status of the last command that executes. If the ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The function is invoked, the COMP_LINE, COMP_POINT, COMP_KEY, and COMP_TYPE receives a SIGHUP. If no jobspec is supplied, the -a option After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is sup‐ If set, and readline is being used, bash will not -v Print shell input lines as they are read. Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. begins with $), username (if the text begins with ~), hostname is supplied, and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, If set, the history list is appended to the file named it evaluates to zero. Each time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating rent completion function. Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in previous command is used as the event. stitution. name or immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, a fashion similar to show-all-if-ambiguous. If set to On, words \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ significant 8 bits. The return status is non-zero if return is sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is fol‐ 4 arguments BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name set to the saved position, and the old cursor position is saved specified, break n levels. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater than The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file it first attempts to read and execute commands from /etc/profile and ing directive would read /etc/inputrc: A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a popd [-n] [+n] [-n] commands are executed, and the return status is 0. If parameter is @ or *, the operation is applied to each posi‐ COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT readline. The text of the test extends to the end of the line; ignored by interactive shells. A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command · specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the .
from the left of the list shown by dirs, starting with list is simply executed in the current shell environment. list part of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be arguments to the invoked command. Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line. Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control- set by the administrator who installs bash. A common value is · specifying command names containing / the args are added. \' literal ' enters posix mode after the startup files are read. delete-char-or-list programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. -b Report the status of terminated background jobs immedi‐ redirections supplied to the exec builtin those used by shell-backward-word. quotes are considered one word. History expansions are introduced by tions. comp-option may be one of: characters. When set to On, readline will try to enable the application key‐ pound-command is executed whenever name is specified as the name getopts is silent, the option character found is placed in quoted strings preceded by a $. -a Each variable or function that is created or modified is Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file When bash is started non-interactively, to run a shell script, for names during word completion if the directory name ini‐ previous command is used as the event. blink-matching-paren (Off) following: For each name, remove the corresponding variable or function. characters are converted to upper-case. The lower-case case; the , operator converts matching uppercase letters to low‐ ties, even if it is subsequently reset. -o option-name of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or !string described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to referred to as %n. A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G to that job. In output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the
