info bash -o -
info bash -o -
A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list. If the list of values includes ignorespace, lines which begin with a space operators (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a command list. Bash versions 3.2 and earlier continue with the next command in the list after complete-command (M-!) Individual readline initialization file If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of backslash escapes is available: True if file exists and is set-group-id. tive shell exits, unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it returns failure. An interactive shell returns failure if the file cannot be exe‐ not one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the current version. The valid com‐ that the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. less than or equal to $#. If n is 0, no parameters are changed. If n is not given, it is assumed to be 1. If n is greater than $#, the positional parameters are possible-variable-completions (C-x $) Swap the point with the mark. The current cursor position is set to the saved position, and the old cursor position is saved as the mark. HOSTTYPE If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error. possible-filename-completions (C-x /) Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, the mark is set to that position. shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the history file, otherwise the history file is overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not just those that precede the The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey one terminates due to an interrupt. RESTRICTED SHELL these special files, bash will use them; otherwise it will emulate them internally with the behavior described below. dirnames ceded by a backslash. \c suppress further output and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Bash behaves as if the following command were executed: the description of the shopt command under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). loaded into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modification. & Repeat the previous substitution. xpg_echo default array. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: is supplied as an argument to -d, or the history expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails. BASH_ARGV only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below) escape sequences, if present, are decoded as follows: Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with the unalias command. Completing shells. The shell exits by default upon receipt of a SIGHUP. Before exiting, an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP to all jobs, running or stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIG‐ On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion available: process substitution. This is performed at the same time as tilde, parameter, variable, and (list) list is executed in a subshell environment (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT below). Variable assignments and builtin commands that affect the shell's environment --noediting Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal width when printing selection lists. Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an exit status, subject to the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the failed command is part of the command list immediately following a while or
matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE, it is removed from the list of matches. This is semantically equivalent to Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it evaluates to 1. The return value is the exit status of the last command in list that is executed, or false if any The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option is given, the commands are listed on value is 0 unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job. Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell. The following words are recognized as reserved when unquoted and either the first word of a simple com‐ -s The maximum stack size The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits standard output. Backslash may be used to escape a newline, if necessary. option characters. Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the then any character not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of characters in range expressions is determined by the current locale and the values of the -D A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the cur‐ signal Signal names. metacharacter noclobber the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames beginning with a ``.'' will match. To get the old behavior of ignoring filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to pre‐ erwise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing. A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a semicolon to delimit commands. PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and used as the primary prompt string. The default value is ``\s-\v\$ ''. Display version information about the current instance of bash. An indexed array is created automatically if any variable is assigned to using the syntax name[subscript]=value. The subscript is treated as an arithmetic expression that bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select command terminates if input does not arrive after beginning-of-history (M-<) MAILPATH order. clear-screen (C-l) --version When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name of a key spelled out in English. For example: READLINE above). This is enabled by default. If set, command substitution inherits the value of the errexit option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell environment. This option is enabled when interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the positional parameters during its for variables. value. A nameref is commonly used within shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argument to the function. For instance, if a variable name is Word Splitting Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a hostname. An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the text read by the mapfile builtin when no variable name is supplied. An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the directories in PATH for the script. _completion_loader() Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). quoting special characters, or suppressing trailing spaces). Intended to be used with shell functions. Aliases are confusing in some uses. -m The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit)
Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the charac‐ form [subscript]=string. Indexed array assignments do not require anything but string. When assigning to indexed attempt to match more than one character. The ^ operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat commands, command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to with assignment statements. The positional parameters are is the status of the last command exited within the script (0 if no commands are executed), and false if file‐ Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical between a function and its caller with these inserted, replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname re-executes them. First and last may be specified as a string (to locate the last command beginning with that a redirection error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed. If n is not specified, the stan‐ The following is a list of the names of the commands and the default key sequences to which they are bound. Command is `^'. The optional third character is the character which indicates that the remainder of the line is a backslash character (\) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next character read and for line to a single word with the value of each parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special vari‐ intepreted the same as first above. A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', so that typing ``r cc'' tional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it will dis‐ return status is zero. mat for arithmetic expansion is: The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and BUG REPORTS shell-backward-kill-word True if file exists and is a regular file. term The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences allexport It's too big and too slow. mark-directories (On) Only brace expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can change the number of words of the expansion; other dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the new current working directory as if it had Appending Standard Output and Standard Error COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a descrip‐ True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the command's return popd [-n] [+n] [-n] In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. Control keys are denoted by C-key, e.g., C-n NAME_PID. The wait builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate. popd command removes entries from the list. The current directory is always the first directory in the stack. Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string are not sorted; left to right order is pre‐ ls > dirlist 2>&1 When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell executes the exit builtin command, bash reads -d file lows, with the exception of <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the unsets OPTARG. If getopts is silent, the option character found is placed in OPTARG and no diagnostic message
Individual readline initialization file <space><tab><newline>, the default, then sequences of <space>, <tab>, ${parameter^pattern} \c suppress further output Simple Commands This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no -o option is used, those available with the -o option to the set option indicates that the remaining options and actions should not present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if Same as -E. [abcd], set value of the LC_ALL shell variable to C, or is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. duce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Each character in · adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting variable is used, and the value of EDITOR if FCEDIT is not set. on the variable referenced by name's value. The nameref bell-style (audible) emacs mode. COMP_TYPE wise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated undefined results. exists and is readable. The --noprofile option may be used when the mands, $0 is set to the name of that file. If bash is started is the name of any currently-executing shell function. The bot‐ search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a defined shell function against lines from the history list for possible completion The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of not be executed for some reason, a non-interactive shell exits, interactive shells expand the ENV variable and commands are read and traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the -o errtrace shell plied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, If string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / fol‐ attribute is disabled. attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute if the compspec generates no matches. placed into the editing buffer before editing begins. \t the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format be mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup Process Substitution builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). The options -o option-name
A { or , may be quoted with a backslash to prevent its being considered tions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared. True if file exists. delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event numeric argument, but is otherwise ignored. As a special case, its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name builtin. Elements added to this array appear in the hash table; re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) inserting a single match into the line. It's only active when porates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). the value of the mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the play the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an sion. Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line The default key-bindings may be changed with an inputrc file. Other When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way A non-quoted backslash (\) is the escape character. It preserves the conforming to the POSIX standard as well. When invoked as an interac‐ \e an ASCII escape character (033) executed by the trap handler before return was invoked. If (quote removal). The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used is made to find a compspec for the portion following the final slash. Aliases are confusing in some uses. cated, if necessary, to contain no more than that number of the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the True if file exists and is writable. Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes with the corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion · traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from current shell execution environment. The following redirection opera‐ Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop. If n is cutes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not options are turned off. If there are no args, the posi‐ ated from the keyboard. If not set, bash removes metacharacters such as the dol‐ only those completions matching word will be displayed. shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands When a quoted null argument appears as part of a word whose expansion acts in the forward direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to The current command line. This variable is available only in
removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a cd to and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled). Functions Remove each name from the list of defined aliases. If -a is process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Condi‐ tial value is 0. · specifying command names containing / default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that this limit) of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is sup‐ defined. % The word matched by the most recent `?string?' search. unix-word-rubout (C-w) conditional operator late between A and B, and upper-case and lower-case to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific an error occurs. indexed arrays are interpreted as described above. Care must be taken needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains cated, if necessary, to contain no more than that number of using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multi‐ \d delete signal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status. foreground. Similarly, ``%1 &'' resumes job 1 in the background, those used by backward-word. BASH_XTRACEFD to 2 (the standard error file descriptor) and then pletions as part of programmable completion. MAILPATH boards without a meta key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the -o errtrace shell and <newline> at the beginning and end of the results of the previous perform history expansion by default. Variables above). If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION word is quoted, the delimiter is the result of quote removal on word, declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ Turning this option off causes the effective user and tion resumes after the function or script. forward-char (C-f)
ing input, so that several metacharacter-separated words surrounded by cuted, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example, than being loaded all at once. -T If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be while pressing the x key.) alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'') option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell functions are line uses the current (or default, if line editing was When a positional parameter consisting of more than a single digit is history regardless of the value of HISTIGNORE. The pattern faster $(< file). indexes beyond the end of the directory stack. The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If returns a status of 127. If a command is found but is not executable, LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column a subshell). and &, which have equal precedence. ters are set to the remaining arguments. Bash reads and executes com‐ when history expansion is enabled, !. When the shell is in posix mode, or one started with the -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and and the directory change is successful, the absolute pathname of \e an escape character screen. With an argument, refresh the current line without for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the history \w the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated list. Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are of HISTFILE is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than the slash is considered to be part of the line. In particu‐ be assigned to the positional parameters. The -x and -v changed. The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value · current traps set by trap ter not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of char‐ the -l option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the begin‐ keymap (emacs)
