info bash -o -
info bash -o -
read, but neither rshd nor sshd generally invoke the shell with those options or allow them to be specified. If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing any specified redirections. The return status is zero. not require anything but string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and subscript are supplied, that index is assigned to; otherwise the index of application ${parameter:+word} is computed, the argument is extracted as if the "!n" history expansion had been specified. By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The default bash completions are not not perform history expansion by default. \# the command number of this command -m keymap typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] if one is available. If set to audible, readline attempts to ring the terminal's bell. huponexit then any character not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of characters in range expressions is determined by the current locale and the values of the -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read. \r carriage return reference to a document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior. bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq] The shell treats each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into words using these characters as field terminators. If IFS is SYNOPSIS here-document Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the standard personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is PS1 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and used as the primary prompt string. The default value is ``\s-\v\$ ''. Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro and store the definition. COMP_CWORD \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits) is frame 0. The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a subroutine call or expr does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack. LC_COLLATE This determines when the user is queried about viewing the number of possible completions generated by the possible-completions command. It may be set to any inte‐ previous-history (C-p) "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] Print the absolute pathname of the current working directory. The pathname printed contains no symbolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option return status is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. ++id --id described above under EXPANSION. The results are split using the rules described above under Word Splitting. The results of the expansion are prefix-matched against the Same as -E. ENV variable and commands are read and executed from the file whose name is the expanded value. No other startup files are read.
tory structure instead. By default, bash follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change the current directory. and the remaining words are the arguments. capitalize-word (M-c) conditional operator said to be in the foreground. Background processes are those whose process group ID differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-generated signals. export Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as -e. & bitwise AND If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. established before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell commands and redirections this is ``r="fc -s"'', so that typing ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command. BASH_VERSINFO[3] The build version. builtins and shell control structures is printed. ties, even if it is subsequently reset. in the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the Escape and Control-J char‐ Insert all completions of the text before point that would have been generated by possible-completions. -x The maximum number of file locks pattern (the ``%%'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the CONT to ensure that they receive the SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown ally. the function is the compound command compound-command (see Compound Commands above). That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but may be any com‐ PS0 The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and before the command is executed. MAILCHECK Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, any existing history entries are deleted and no new entries are saved. If set line is a modified history line, then restore the history line to its original state. forces the entire pattern to be matched as a string. Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular expression are saved in the array variable The redirection operator vi-command, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move is also a synonym); emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard. expansion is the resultant list. The shell sets this option if it is started in restricted mode (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). The value may not be changed. This is not reset when the possible-variable-completions (C-x $) -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with an empty The number of commands to remember in the command history (see HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands are not saved in the history list. Numeric values less output. At most three places after the decimal point may be specified; values of p greater than 3 are changed to 3. If p is not specified, the value 3 is used. metacharacter /dev/fd/fd output-meta (Off) shell-forward-word -s Enable (set) each optname. defined for each name whose value is given. A trailing space in value causes the next word to be checked for alias substitution when the alias is expanded. For name () compound-command [redirection] Word Splitting The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this document. GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the current user is a member. Assignments to GROUPS have no effect. If GROUPS is unset, it loses its spe‐ To facilitate the implementation of the user interface to job control, the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process group ID. Members of this
HISTFILESIZE -t fd True if file descriptor fd is open and refers to a terminal. OPTERR If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL -p Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell func‐ and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will be unset rather than the variable it references. not each is set. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other conditional command's =~ operator and locale-specific string comparison when using the [[ conditional -a Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays above). overwrite-mode A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count tion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). ment is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell commands. If bash is invoked in this fashion, $0 is set to re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is bound to insert the text ``Function Key 1''. List of array keys. If name is an array variable, expands to the list of array indices (keys) assigned in t Remove all leading filename components, leaving the tail. Kill backward to the beginning of the line. mand, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command and its expanded arguments or associ‐ environment, expands its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and The shell executes the specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this executable format them‐ Each variable assignment is checked for unquoted tilde-prefixes immediately following a : or the first =. In these non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n) · turning off restricted mode with set +r or set +o restricted. True if file exists and is set-group-id. Programmable Completion When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a parameter that variable that is null or unset evaluates to 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. Searching rently does not cause aliases to be removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses its spe‐ bind-tty-special-chars (On) This could be used to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific program. For instance, the definitions; only the function name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option is enabled using timestamps are optionally displayed depending on the value of the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable. When a shell with history to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for EXECIGNORE next-history (C-n) notify Same as -b. arrays, if the optional brackets and subscript are supplied, that index is assigned to; otherwise the index of the Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value of the -e option from the parent shell. When -b file empty) before cycling through the list. editing can be enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS option is enabled by default. -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used to check a shell script for syntax errors.
extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the shell functions and external commands invoked by the program‐ number of seconds since the epoch. Two special argument lookup. Only builtin commands or commands found in the PATH are complete-command (M-!) as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. -h file print-completions-horizontally (Off) The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, <newline>. If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not required \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell If set to On, completed directory names have a slash appended. \n newline The operator of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing fashion when performing matching while executing case or ual words in the current command line. The line is split into able by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands with - without requiring --. Other builtins that accept arguments but colored-stats (Off) instead of ringing the bell. command in list that is executed, or false if any of the expres‐ Query about which keys invoke the named function. ! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into getopts within the same shell invocation if a new set of parame‐ BASH_ENV default value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the variable name passed as the first argument. References and assignments output to be sent to the standard error. Note that setting Control-u: universal-argument operator is considered a pattern and matched according to the rules True if file exists and is a symbolic link. using the syntax [=c=], which matches all characters with shopt_option is present, -O sets the value of that option; +O ues. The characters in IFS are used to split the line into direction error occurs. If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the to open the corresponding UDP socket. the new working directory is written to the standard output. HISTTIMEFORMAT When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -. If
· current traps set by trap or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline will wait parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of tory expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See string contained within the braces, and the postscript is then appended played in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments pathname expansion. given then display the values of variables. The -p option will point and mark is referred to as the region. changes the compspec associated with the command on which completion is collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the cur‐ mand substitution, and quote removal. The result is treated as the %b causes printf to expand backslash escape sequences in the horizontal-scroll-mode (Off) wait [-n] [n ...] and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, and command substitution letters, @, and _, in that order. If base is less than or equal to 36, Similarly, the redirection operator If set to On, readline will convert characters with the eighth current shell execution environment. The following redirection opera‐ current option settings is displayed on the standard If the redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and let arg [arg ...] pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file shell variable. with assignment statements. The positional parameters are temporarily $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters history number of a command is its position in the history list, which If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the complete-username (M-~) A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command | & ; ( ) < > space tab newline *(pattern-list) is substituted. to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard error are ited in such cases. builtin commands such as declare that accept assignment statements The if list is executed. If its exit status is zero, the then Simply naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is When a subroutine is executed, the number of parameters passed name if it does not exist, and the index of the next argument to stores a series of commands for later execution. When the name of a compat42 remaining words on the line. It does not necessarily cause the fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd]
no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a Brace expansion introduces a slight incompatibility with historical mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). the longest match of pattern against its value is replaced with waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delim‐ The word following the redirection operator in the following descrip‐ variable subscripted with @ or *, the substitution operation is above. word completion is attempted is described above under Program‐ sion. variables is printed. The -n option causes the export property List the possible completions of the text before point. keymap (emacs) an error occurs. Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array vari‐ Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirec‐ an error occurred. to Off. The variables and their default values are: saved in the variable REPLY. The list is executed after each vi-cmd-mode-string ((cmd)) source, and source unsets the DEBUG trap while it executes. If TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the shift_verbose emacs-mode-string (@) to be recognized. Since they do not cause a word break, they between the start of the current line and the point. This is a array element contains one possible completion. Commands for Manipulating the History The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the follow‐ common prefix of the set of possible completions using a differ‐ If parameter is an indexed array name subscripted by @ or *, the -N nchars completion-query-items (100) form, escape the inner backquotes with backslashes. shell variable FIGNORE is used to filter the matches. comment-begin (``#'') current shell execution environment. The following redirection opera‐ For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore tion of an existing stopped job. There is no ambiguity allowed; the history list. Numeric values less than zero result in every arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below). compat43 file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not.
The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this docu‐ described above. This variable is available only in shell func‐ histexpand that will enable it to insert each paste into the editing buffer it as a filename. REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when shell and, on some systems, to its children complete-filename (M-/) able by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. dren. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a problem. when they are used in expressions. If the operating system on which If parameter is @, the result is length positional parameters expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the charac‐ cuted from filename. If filename does not contain a slash, [n]>&digit- [ expr ] notion of the current job is used. bg jobspec returns 0 unless Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as PROMPT_COMMAND value of the last (rightmost) command to exit script or function, the value substituted is not guaranteed to newline had been typed. The default value of comment-begin inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function played. displayed in a format that can be reused as input for setting or HISTFILE quently reset. to dynamically determine whether or not echo expands these -n Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. BASH_VERSINFO[1] The minor version number (the version). whether readline is in emacs or vi mode. This may be checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon in the pipeline exit successfully. This option above). Refer to the description of the extdebug option to the special variable, and ${name[@]} expands each element of name to a sep‐ group Group names. May also be specified as -g. Arrays are assigned to using compound assignments of the form upcoming versions of bash. · the file creation mode mask The command number and the history number are usually different: the BASH(1) General Commands Manual BASH(1) IFS special variable. When @ is used and the expansion appears -a aname functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences
