info bash -o -
info bash -o -
cdspell If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory component in a cd command will be corrected. The errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing Once a compspec has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Com‐ huponexit There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is most useful when used in combination with a default completion specified with complete -D. It's pos‐ Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below). stack; the first parameter of the initial call is at the bottom. When a subroutine is executed, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The shell sets yank-nth-arg (M-C-y) Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to pre‐ BASH(1) General Commands Manual BASH(1) An OR list has the form coproc [NAME] command [redirections] mode. This command affects only emacs mode; vi mode does overwrite differently. Each call to readline() starts in insert mode. In overwrite mode, characters bound expr1 -o expr2 Readline Command Names described above (Compound Commands). is reset to its original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the shell). If arg is the null string the signal specified by each sigspec is ignored by the A The expansion is a string in the form of an assignment statement or declare command that, if evaluated, will recreate parameter with its attributes and value. Killing and Yanking When the end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero. OPTIND is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name invalid options and require -- to prevent this interpretation. Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. help [-dms] [pattern] The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells forward-char (C-f) array subscripted by @ or *, or an associative array name, the results differ as described below. If length is omitted, expands to the substring of the value of is escaped using a backslash. The backslash preceding the ! is not removed. the attributes and values of all shell variables. The -f option will restrict the display to shell functions. The -F option inhibits the display of function defi‐ shell function. The bottom-most element (the one with the highest index) is "main". This variable exists only when a shell function is executing. Assignments to character which is not to be interpreted as part of its name. The parameter is a shell parameter as described above PARAMETERS) or an array reference (Arrays). places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what login(1) does. The -c option causes command to be executed with an empty · open files inherited by the shell at invocation, as modified by redirections supplied to the exec builtin An interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments (unless -s is specified) and without the -c option whose standard input and error are both connected to If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the functions, shell builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. bell-style (audible) no jobspec is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs; the -r option without a jobspec argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return executed in list. enable-keypad (Off) Searching The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain circumstances (see the let and declare builtin commands, the (( compound command, and Arithmetic The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or an error occurred. -a All current limits are reported of the current bash session. clear-screen (C-l)
Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a list, or a compound command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above), exits with a non-zero For example, placing The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the following: ${!prefix*} Completing pipefail The GLOBIGNORE shell variable is not used to filter the matches, but the FIGNORE variable is used. TIMEFORMAT the line. interactive (see INVOCATION below). that the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child. message, and, if the checkjobs option is enabled, lists the jobs and their statuses. The jobs command may then be used to inspect their status. If a second attempt to -b Report the status of terminated background jobs immediately, rather than before the next primary prompt. This is effective only when job control is enabled. forward-word (M-f) mark-directories (On) shells. After these expansions are performed, quote characters present in the original word are removed unless they have been quoted themselves (quote removal). builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h. its attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified by the nameref variable's delimiter If a word designator is supplied without an event specification, the previous command is used as the event. MAILPATH -l When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case characters are converted to lower-case. The upper-case attribute is disabled. The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is redrawn. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is BASH_XTRACEFD Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed-width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their prece‐ completion-map-case (Off) ing meanings: If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables. Any variable may be used as an indexed array; the declare builtin will explicitly declare an array. by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. A shell variable that is null or unset evaluates to 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion The shell exits by default upon receipt of a SIGHUP. Before exiting, an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP to all jobs, running or stopped. Stopped jobs are sent SIG‐ The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in turn, and list is executed each Matching, as if the extglob shell option were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without This determines when the user is queried about viewing the number of possible completions generated by the possible-completions command. It may be set to any inte‐ CONT to ensure that they receive the SIGHUP. To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the disown /dev/stdout ignore SIGINT and SIGQUIT in addition to these inherited handlers. Commands run as a result of command substitution ignore the keyboard-generated job control signals SIGT‐ the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, supplied. If it is set while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command set -o posix had been executed. Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and the longest match of pattern against A variant of here documents, the format is:
nullglob AUTHORS If command cannot be executed for some reason, a non-interactive shell exits, unless the execfail shell option search requires only as many characters as needed to find the desired history entry. The characters present in the is enabled. In that case, it returns failure. An interactive shell returns failure if the file cannot be Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless an ! appearing in double quotes is escaped may be overridden when creating output files by using the redirection operator >| instead of >. hashed commands is not consulted when using -a. The -f option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a special builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed the value of parameter. If length evaluates to a number less than zero, it is interpreted as an offset in There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. ters bound to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as [-+]O [shopt_option] -i The maximum number of pending signals readonly names. The -p option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If a the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to case. executed. errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing character, and one character too many. If a complete_fullquote If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed form a complete key sequence using the input read so far, or can take additional input to complete a longer $include /etc/inputrc the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: provides functionality analogous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set to any other shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. Change the current directory to dir. if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is the Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (portable object) file format. the parentheses are not supplied, the braces are required. compound-command is executed whenever name is colon. The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs bash. A common are reported when the pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that specified by POSIX. When Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF character as the sole input. If set, the \W the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde matches, but the FIGNORE variable is used. Same as -T. as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell normally searches Read key bindings from filename. \UHHHHHHHH + - addition, subtraction If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a single match into the line. It's shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the readline line buffer and the READ‐ getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting 1 argument
printf [-v var] format [arguments] for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the complete-hostname (M-@) Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in active shells. sion is: downcase-word (M-l) structures is printed. specified, the standard output (file descriptor 1) is used. If the tory. newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. enced by parameter instead of performing the complete indirect expan‐ the unset builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between sion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. A coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word. A exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x) xpg_echo associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of separates the event specification from the word designator. It may be mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). the full pathname used to invoke each command executed and fails. since shell invocation is returned. If a value is assigned to lar, a backslash-newline pair may not be used as a line parameters are unset. Otherwise, the positional parame‐ tional arguments following dir are ignored. The variable CDPATH Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal to the shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not checked for are transposed characters, a missing charac‐ value, list is executed and the arithmetic expression expr3 is If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to function or a script executed with the . or source builtins fin‐ If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap ronment seen by that command. are not specified as accepting options interpret arguments beginning NAME terns are not considered executable files for the purposes of output is displayed in a format that may be reused as input. formed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted will not strip the eighth bit from the characters it reads), syntactically incorrect, the conditional expression's return value is where each name is defined are displayed as well. The -F option non-incremental search.
If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it · the current working directory possible-filename-completions (C-x /) ter sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name displayed only if input is coming from a terminal. The following is a list of the names of the commands and the default command is executed in a subshell environment, and its single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash. complete-variable (M-$) The general format for redirecting input is: is used to generate a list of matching filenames for possible truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value of All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the first directory in the stack. expansion. -q The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as ters bound to self-insert replace the text at point rather than jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +, and the pre‐ tionality of the builtin within the function. The cd builtin is meta prefix). The default is On, but readline will set it to pletions as part of programmable completion. -f The maximum size of files written by the shell and its screen. With an argument, refresh the current line without overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the program‐ a filename. This filename is passed as an argument to the current com‐ tern (the ``##'' case) deleted. If parameter is @ or *, the return its exit status. This is useful when defining a function If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several Use this variable to ignore shared library files that have the the list. become the possible completions. tions, as described in the following table. If the operating system on If set, the shift builtin prints an error message when for which no completion has previously been defined. The -E with the corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be
\T the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between environment. caller [expr] $endif JOB CONTROL Readline remembers the last incremental search string. If two Control- tion, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of Readline Variables used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly FUNCNAME while pressing the x key.) COMP_CWORD defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number. Signal names are for later processing. Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alpha‐ in which case it is the command executing at the time of the status. The return status of AND and OR lists is the exit status of Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITH‐ the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see hash below extract the last word, as if the "!$" history expansion had been COMP_TYPE A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-com‐ substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The SECONDS, the value returned upon subsequent references is the shell functions, command substitutions, and commands SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how invocation, the shell becomes restricted. A restricted shell is used [base#]n, where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64 is when using =), and new values are appended to the array beginning at history-expand-line (M-^) Substitute new for the first occurrence of old in the event ${!name[*]} A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this completion-query-items (100) overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, List of array keys. If name is an array variable, expands to string1 with string2. Equivalent to ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' ARITHMETIC EVALUATION if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. for 2>&1 |. This implicit redirection of the standard error to the executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an [n]>>word
\a an ASCII bell character (07) and not during execution of a script by . or source. Any com‐ bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq] ignorespace, lines which begin with a space character are not active shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes com‐ ters are set to the args, even if some of them begin jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If any jobs last, or if the command's return value is being inverted using True if the shell variable varname is set (has been assigned a filename completion. If set to Off, the leading `.' must be versions through 4.2. word completion is attempted is described above under Program‐ fashion when performing pathname expansion (see Pathname True if file exists and is a symbolic link. Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the · redirecting output using the >, >|, <>, >&, &>, and >> redirect‐ an option other than -p or -r is supplied without a name argu‐ search for a string supplied by the user. /dev/udp/host/port able array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is sup‐ declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F option to declare or type‐ while the command command. signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be · importing function definitions from the shell environment at \t horizontal tab Word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options are disabled (unset) the current position in the history list. tions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde below) tial value is 0. assignments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the Redirecting Input Assign Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the score. Also referred to as an identifier. complete-command (M-!) one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard descriptors for output from and input to an unnamed coprocess history comment character, so they may be preserved across shell ses‐ shell. this variable is assigned a value, the history file is trun‐
