info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Event Designators SIGNALS vent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. kill-line (C-k) Killing and Yanking [1] 25647 Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resultant word is expanded. The possible completions are the declare -n ref=$1 string1 > string2 input-meta (Off) begin with a -. errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command to fail (the default behavior is to make them fatal errors that cause the shell to exit), and does not filenames for possible completions. Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is used in conjunction with `:s' (e.g., `:gs/old/new/') or `:&'. If used with `:s', any delimiter can is decoded, it is expanded via parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of the promptvars shell option (see Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion. than zero result in every command being saved on the history list (there is no limit). The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any startup files. { list; } The pathname expansion pattern globpat is expanded to generate the possible completions. re-read-init-file (C-x C-r) without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Note that when using range expressions like [a-z] (see below), letters of the other case may be included, depending on -p prompt history [n] If set, allow a word beginning with # to cause that word and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored in an interactive shell (see COMMENTS BASH_EXECUTION_STRING capitalize-word (M-c) to a value less than zero, the number of history entries is not limited. By default, the number of history entries is set to the value of the HISTSIZE shell vari‐ If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the command to exit with a non-zero ties, even if it is subsequently reset. function Using `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with the exceptions that +a may not be used to destroy an array variable and +r will not remove the read‐ file File names. May also be specified as -f. -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) Commands for Manipulating the History This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU error message format. shell and by the commands it invokes. If arg is not present and -p has been supplied, then the trap commands associated with each sigspec are displayed. If no If set, range expressions used in pattern matching bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave as if in the traditional C locale when performing
expand_aliases SHELLOPTS -u function Moving File Descriptors r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. READLINE above). This is enabled by default. Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated execution of menu-complete steps An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to the current position in the his‐ arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Conditional operators such as -f must be unquoted to be recog‐ & Repeat the previous substitution. cial properties, even if it is subsequently reset. BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE. Each element of FUNCNAME has corresponding elements in BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE to describe the call ments deviates from this are noted below. A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a command's description may be separated from the rest of the command by one or more newlines, and may SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). Same as -B. List the possible completions of the text before point. then any character not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of characters in range expressions is determined by the current locale and the values of the below). In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. Appending Standard Output and Standard Error prefix-meta (ESC) quote the &. If old is null, it is set to the last old substituted, or, if no previous history substitutions took place, the last string in a !?string[?] search. enable-meta-key (On) \$ if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $ \r carriage return terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), or one started with the -i option. PS1 is set and $- includes i if bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing the suspend character (typically ^Z, Control-Z) while a dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the new current working directory as if it had been supplied as the argument to the cd builtin. brace expansion with the +B option to the set command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -s option to the shopt builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. argument, getopts places that argument into the variable OPTARG. The shell does not reset OPTIND automatically; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to SEE ALSO value of the variable NAME_PID. The wait builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate. on which bash is running provides these special files, bash will use them; otherwise it will emulate them internally with this behavior: If any file argument to one of the When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, interactive shells expand the +(pattern-list) -p Print the directory stack with one entry per line. Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point is. the commands entered. The cmdhist shell option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semi‐ supplied, the return value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second form is used, supplied, have the following meanings:
startup files, as if the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set while the shell is run‐ TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's effect if word is not present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if it is not interactive, /etc/bash.bash.logout to the function in which local is invoked: shell options changed using the set builtin inside the function are hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name] signal Signal names. An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final param‐ -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first otherwise. If first is not specified it is set to the pre‐ gnu_errfmt Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how to insert characters like C-q, for example. name. If name is not an array, expands to 0 if name is set and null otherwise. When @ is used and the expan‐ run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are read‐ True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. filterpat is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. It is applied to the list of possible comple‐ Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive (see INVOCATION below). unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared object. If a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is the eval [arg ...] Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes with back‐ history -p arg [arg ...] be ignored in an interactive shell (see COMMENTS above). This option is enabled by default. Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for the inputrc file. option indicates that the remaining options should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that is, com‐ retain when expanding the \w and \W prompt string escapes (see PROMPTING below). Characters removed are An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal hash table of commands as maintained by Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and return the exit status of the -n The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set) sponding list is executed. If the ;; operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first quoted-insert (C-q, C-v) name A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning with an alphabetic character ble completion. When the shell is in posix mode, time may be followed by a newline. In this case, the shell displays the total user ple: --verbose option to assign a list of words read from the standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display If command is specified, it replaces the shell. No new process is created. The arguments become the argu‐ not in posix mode, bash clears the -e option in such subshells. show-mode-in-prompt (Off) history -anrw [filename] history -c complete-variable (M-$)
one, so executing this function the first time makes the argu‐ - Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invoca‐ Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. cover whether or not a shell is restricted. !?string[?] pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command ter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument t Remove all leading filename components, leaving the tail. generate the possible completions. are ignored. When -p is supplied without name arguments, it appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the the argument n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the stopped job. The substring value provides functionality analo‐ ior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value of globstar -s file True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set. - + unary minus and plus HISTIGNORE the primaries described above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in the ues for the positional parameters and are assigned, in order, to If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs not an array, expands to 0 if name is set and null otherwise. parisons. That is, the current locale's collating most useful when used in combination with a default completion speci‐ SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT startup That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be Move back a character. non-numeric value, the maximum number of history entries will be umask [-p] [-S] [mode] if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input standard output. It is an error to use local when not within a and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), [n]<>word If set to On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the ters). The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is suspend [-f]
On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the vari‐ The format for a coprocess is: to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. the executing shell. The standard output of command is connected via a Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or commands and bindings from that file. For example, the follow‐ cdable_vars with a tilde (uses the value of the PROMPT_DIRTRIM vari‐ If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the /var/mail/$USER). tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCON‐ True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name refer‐ meanings: The result of the expansion is subject to word splitting and defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from That command is usually a list of commands between { and }, but -c Clear the history list by deleting all the entries. option is encountered, the directory stack is empty, a non-exis‐ Same as -H. tion or a script executed with the . or source builtins). With‐ the last command executed within the script as the exit status Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed mands without redirections are treated as candidates for resump‐ match-hidden-files (On) Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the ing filenames beginning with a ``.'', make ``.*'' one of the patterns kill-line (C-k) Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when quotes (see PARAMETERS below). Commands for Moving first word of the replacement text is tested for aliases, but a word tically-named entries in the environment passed to the shell's chil‐ pound command, and Arithmetic Expansion). Evaluation is done in fixed- When @ is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, value). attempt is made to use a quoted compound array assign‐ abort (C-g) The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, expansion of the items following in results in an empty list, no defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and command. ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps. A list is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one of the completion-display-width (-1) closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma or a valid sequence -c Specify the number of lines read between each call to bfox@gnu.org
pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using + $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters string1 > string2 is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped ``stty''. If this character is read when there are no charac‐ the shell is interactive. convert-meta (On) added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] ment. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix con‐ Function names and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the -P prefix -H Enable ! style history substitution. This option is on run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control of the resultant list which match the word being com‐ ${parameter@operator} There may be only one active coprocess at a time. but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit were enabled. The = operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch True if file exists and is writable. If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at mands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in to each resulting string, expanding left to right. PPID The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is read‐ the sequence. It suffices to place the sequence of commands between not silent, prints an error message and unsets OPTARG. If option requires an argument, getopts places that argument into event; the empty string is returned in that case. tilde-expand (M-&) A synonym for yank-last-arg. message and returns an exit status of 127. 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. Same as -C. If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the histverify shell subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and Display Error if Null or Unset. If parameter is null or unset, 1. The -F option to the declare builtin displays the If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory mand, and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is stitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command. select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done
the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the transpose-chars (C-t) and displayed by interactive shells after reading a command and getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parame‐ · the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed. ters ESC and C-J will terminate an incremental search. is made to find a compspec for the portion following the final slash. The --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands Search backward through the history for the string of characters shell exits Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading Remove matching prefix pattern. The word is expanded to produce list is executed. Otherwise, each elif list is executed in formed. The result is supplied as a single string, with a newline the history list. Next, any command specified with the -C option is invoked in an envi‐ rent job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the foreground --noediting tion, and the function definition is removed. If the -n option in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ringing file cannot be executed. If command is not specified, any redi‐ · specifying the -p option to the command builtin command in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first one that able is read-only. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh Matches any string, including the null string. When the hostname. tuting one string for another in the command. The default is so that typing ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a In this example, C-u is again bound to the function universal-argument. in the pipeline exit successfully. This option each redirection operator except >&- and <&-, the shell will allocate a fer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the any of the shell facilities, including the compgen builtin described -x The maximum number of file locks 1. The words that the parser has marked as variable assignments output, character escape sequences, which are converted and arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to associative completion and command execution via PATH lookup. This does not 1 argument UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set
