info bash -o -
info bash -o -
If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. If offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is used as an offset in characters from the end of the value of parameter. If length evaluates to a number characters before point. Negative arguments have no effect. command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero. help [-dms] [pattern] COLUMNS + - addition, subtraction erwise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing. that have the executable bit set, but are not executable files. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell option. ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is defined in the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}. appended before pathname expansion. attributes do not take effect until subsequent assignments. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function LINE_LINE or READLINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected in the editing state. If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for a line of input after vi Use a vi-style command line editing interface. This also affects the editing interface used for read -e. auto_resume Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). the -o option to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). \" double quote the second. completions after successive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word completion, @, to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or %, for menu com‐ [n]>&word When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started, bash reads and executes commands from /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist. This may be are displayed again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to null. The line read is saved in the variable REPLY. The && logical AND Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric argument, save the deleted text on the kill ring. Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If no names are given then display the values of variables. The -p option will display the attributes and values of ating systems that do not handle this executable format themselves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name continue [n] ${parameter^^pattern} greater than, or greater than or equal to arg2, respectively. Arg1 and arg2 may be positive or negative integers. Kill the text from point to the end of the line. the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. character. When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the ber and source filename of the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, subroutine name, and source whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word being True if file exists and is executable. fg [jobspec] HISTTIMEFORMAT printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first taken relative to one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than zero. The string of characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the character as a command. If this variable has not been given The expression is false.
builtins and shell control structures is printed. If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the Associative arrays are created using declare -A name. shell-backward-kill-word Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns If set, the return value of a pipeline is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in the escape sequences, if present, are decoded as follows: attributes, are treated as references, assignments, and attribute modifications to the variable whose name was passed as $1. If the control variable in a for loop has the · using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell builtins and RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such cases. dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the new current working directory as if it had been supplied as the argument to the cd builtin. If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of the three-argument expression composed of the remaining arguments. Otherwise, the expression is 1 argument HOSTTYPE If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-interactive shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes commands from the file /etc/profile, If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current shell environment. Otherwise, the variables are added to the environment of the executed command Display helpful information about builtin commands. If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching pattern; otherwise help for all the introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is ! by default. Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character, but Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for reading on file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) plied, -A takes precedence. The read builtin accepts a -a option to assign a list of words read from the standard input to an array. The set and declare builtins display A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. Once a variable is set, it may be unset only by using the unset builtin command (see -W wordlist job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the %string job identifier. Move to the first line in the history. -t Remove a trailing delim (default newline) from each line read. patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from the list of matches. If the nocaseglob option is set, the matching against the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to \j the number of jobs currently managed by the shell SIGNALS getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting is used. In normal operation, diagnostic messages are insert-completions (M-*) Kill the text from point to the end of the line. TIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP. \r carriage return word, and preserves them in the output. Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. For example, a word entered to sh as file{1,2} appears identi‐ nocasematch · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with variables exported for the command, passed in the environment returns. With no operands, local writes a list of local variables to the standard output. It is an error to use local when not within a function. The return sta‐ \n new line ment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file currently being checked. specifies the command to be executed, and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. ARGUMENTS A synonym for yank-last-arg.
is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they Equivalent to -v. POSIXLY_CORRECT FILES Names of all shell variables. May also be specified as -v. s/old/new/ (IEEE Standard 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default. Event Designators left to right. removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. job. This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) Pattern Matching If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname expansion (see The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh. This section Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key then the x key. This makes ESC the meta prefix. The combination M-C-x $(command) Same as -T. named name. This includes aliases and functions, if and only if the -p option is not also used. The table of # Quote the current or previous word in the current shell execution environment. The following redirection operators may precede or appear anywhere Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how to insert characters like C-q, for example. next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file · using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell builtins brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, quote ! expression If set to On, and completion-ignore-case is enabled, readline treats hyphens (-) and underscores (_) as equiv‐ PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for com‐ fied. digit is closed after being duplicated to n. [n]<>word assignment is a login shell and -f is not supplied, or if job control is not enabled. TAB. 2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are expanded. If any words remain after expan‐ · shell variables and functions marked for export, along with variables exported for the command, passed in the Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to chet.ramey@case.edu. Function names and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the declare or typeset builtin commands. The -F interactive shell with the --login option, it first attempts to read and execute commands from /etc/profile and Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word
compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name] set, is executed before the shell exits. This option with the corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be sequences of non-printing characters, which can be used to embed ward-delete-char replace the character before point with a the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit status. The When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, and its expanded arguments or associated word list. inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results True if file exists. essary. execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later message and returns an exit status of 127. defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument Control- prefixes, or as a key sequence. negative argument switches the direction through the history mands). pipefail TMOUT If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the of machine on which bash is executing. The default is system- one is created. The return status is false if any sigspec is put was redirected to dirlist. command ) inherit the ERR trap. erencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any reference to a variable list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing The shell treats several parameters specially. These parameters may names during word completion if the directory name ini‐ Command Substitution nous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline com‐ signal Signal names. -n Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used ments may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, BASH_XTRACEFD normal operation, diagnostic messages are printed when invalid how posix mode affects bash's behavior. options. expansion character, but the history expansion character is also mand proceeds. This option is only used by interactive ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT [limit]] Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pat‐ PROMPTING
the symbolic character names are not recognized. primary prompt when vi editing mode is active and in command rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless A non-quoted backslash (\) is the escape character. It preserves the keyseq-timeout (500) If set, command substitution inherits the value of the since shell invocation is returned. If a value is assigned to stat(2) is appended to the filename when listing possible com‐ option is supplied, wait waits for any job to terminate and exit [n] file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state less than zero, the history file is not truncated. When the history The matches will be generated in the same way as if the program‐ -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, BUGS Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cur‐ option is encountered, the directory stack is empty, a non-exis‐ verbose Same as -v. attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as sh, bash -l List the names of all readline functions. string. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124 used for pathname expansion, the character ``.'' at the start of a -p The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set) behavior of historical versions of sh as closely as possible, while by declare. When local is used within a function, it causes the -g file instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called from the file unix-line-discard (C-u) below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell ing symbol symbol. parameters may not be assigned to in this way. Readline provides commands for searching through the command history fails. With the second form, pushd returns 0 unless the direc‐ itself), the operation is actually performed on the variable specified set-mark (C-@, M-<space>) [n]<<<word CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated ${!prefix*} -G globpat sive tabs, !, for listing alternatives on partial word comple‐
shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of func‐ [n]<&digit- local [option] [name[=value] ... | - ] cuted, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, in If read times out, read saves any partial input read into enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] tion). Use LINENO to obtain the current line number. the current history list. · redirecting output using the >, >|, <>, >&, &>, and >> redirect‐ is supplied, and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, progcomp dir Adds dir to the directory stack at the top, making it the rection operator >| instead of >. both reading and writing on file descriptor n, or on file descriptor 0 & Repeat the previous substitution. Expressions may be combined using the following operators, TION ENVIRONMENT below). Variable assignments and builtin com‐ the compatibility options accepted by the shopt builtin If the first argument is !, the result is the negation of for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). slash is considered to be part of the line. In particu‐ Expand the line as the shell does. This performs alias and his‐ is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is options should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that tions, point refers to the current cursor position, and mark refers to given the trace attribute (see the description of the declare builtin message and sets the compatibility level to the default for the received within the timeout, readline will use the shorter but able (there is no value by default), but the location of the When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name \r carriage return \t horizontal tab mable Completion. When @ is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, executing commands such as cd that change the current plied, or if job control is not enabled. When a variable value is read, empty or null values, "on" (case-insen‐ shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...] ${!prefix*} sion is: or adding directories to the stack, so that only the supplied a non-numeric argument, or is used outside a function variable. text, including " and '. The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. tional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] HISTSIZE Insert a tab character.
When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name expansion is enabled. The characters $ and ` retain their special -e The maximum scheduling priority ("nice") with each history entry displayed by the history builtin. If same as those used by shell-forward-word. History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the -s If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after and false otherwise. !n Refer to command line n. vious job with a -. A single % (with no accompanying job specifica‐ completions alphabetically. By default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned ronment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, -w file value is zero on success, non-zero on failure. that is significant. Passing a negative argument to a command that porates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). Directory names. May also be specified as -d. time. This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and command's description may be separated from the rest of the command by hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) nothing (i.e., they are removed). the command arguments, if any. redirected as described previously. fied in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus by the shell and its children. The TIMEFORMAT variable may be used to LC_CTYPE currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command. help [-dms] [pattern] command substitutions, and commands executed in a sub‐ directory names in CDPATH are separated by a colon (:). A null Causes a function to stop executing and return the value speci‐ matches. Event Designators is 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh or @, removes the entire array. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job change the current directory. The user file-creation mask is set to mode. If mode begins with posix mode affects bash's behavior. When an interactive login shell exits, or a non-interactive login shell bind [-m keymap] -f filename g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is override the normal precedence of operators. duces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing mand. The evaluation is performed according to the rules listed below under zero. The until command is identical to the while command,
