info bash -o -
info bash -o -
· various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID or cuting at the time of the trap. FUNCNAME have no effect. If FUNCNAME is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. compat41 If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, no timing information is displayed. A File descriptor 2 is duplicated. Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a negative argument. This command is Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point is. supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion. Pattern substitution. The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. Parameter is expanded and the longest match of pattern against There is no maximum limit on the size of an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned contiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers &>word Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. corresponding then list is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the else list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit status of the last bash [options] [command_string | file] beginning with # causes that word and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored. An interactive shell without the interactive_comments option enabled does not PROMPTING $if Bash actions. The list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line is redrawn. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is HOSTNAME dump-macros mand substitution, or parameter expansion. bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell the second. a decimal number between 2 and 64 representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If base# is omitted, then base 10 is used. When specifying n, the dig‐ ${!name[*]} \\ backslash A case command first expands word, and tries to match it against each pattern in turn, using the same matching rules as for pathname expansion (see Pathname Expan‐ compat32 ( expr ) enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...] Tilde Expansion Use Default Values. If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. expression1 && expression2 Resume the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, until, or select loop. If n is specified, resume at the nth enclosing loop. n must be ≥ 1. If n is greater HISTFILE The expression is true if and only if the argument is not null. expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the beginning or end serves to delimit words. If IFS has a value other than the default, then sequences This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and pattern matching. keyseq-timeout (500)
Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: below). The options appearing in SHELLOPTS are those reported as on by set -o. If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in the default completions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches. If the -o default option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, readline's default shift_verbose \UHHHHHHHH delimiter must evaluate to a number. To explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the history file is truncated to zero size. Non-numeric values and numeric values less than zero inhibit truncation. The shell sets the default value to the value -W wordlist mon prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions. Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the bashbug command to submit a bug report. If you have a fix, you are encouraged to mail that as well! Sugges‐ tus is 0 unless local is used outside a function, an invalid name is supplied, or name is a readonly variable. Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is entered. When shell-command is executed, the shell sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of RESERVED WORDS plied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status. If n specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the was invoked. If no argument is specified, conversion behaves as if -1 had been given. This is an exception to the usual printf behavior. test only for a parameter that is unset. option; +O unsets it. If shopt_option is not supplied, the names and values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on the standard output. If the shell with history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled (see the description of on the history list, subject to the value of HISTIGNORE. The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the his‐ alias has been defined. 2 arguments nized as primaries. command1 && command2 The unset builtin is used to destroy arrays. unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index subscript. Negative subscripts to indexed arrays are interpreted as nolog Currently ignored. Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by forward-word. either x or y begins with a zero, the shell attempts to force all generated terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where necessary. When characters are File descriptor 2 is duplicated. shell to forget all remembered locations. The -d option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of each name. If the -t option is supplied, the full If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current com‐ \r carriage return Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed by the user or be part of the The option-name can be one of the following: FUNCNAME There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is most useful when used in combination with a default completion specified with complete -D. It's pos‐
unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared object. the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: directory Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the above example: inherit_errexit -m Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems mailwarn begins. -N nchars the shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is loaded into the readline editing buffer, allowing complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default not found or an invalid option is supplied. == != equality and inequality is expanded and the longest match of pattern against its value is replaced with string. If pattern begins line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A vi-style line editing interface is also available. Line Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. least one space to avoid being confused with the :- expansion. incremental search and restore the original line. When the search is terminated, the history entry containing the completions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches. If the -o default option was supplied to complete shell-kill-word that word is replaced by the text of the alias. The characters /, $, `, and = and any of the shell metacharacters or option is disabled by default. sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains tildes). destroy an array variable and +r will not remove the readonly attribute. When used in a function, declare and beginning-of-line (C-a) (with the exception of backslash; see the -r option below). mand or the text of a macro and a key sequence to which it should be bound. The name may be specified in one of two Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow symbolic links and operate on the target of the occurs while reading the name of the current directory or an invalid option is supplied. When set to On, readline will configure the terminal in a way that will enable it to insert each paste into Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history lines. The positional parameters. Shell functions are declared as follows: getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error reporting conditional operator ++id --id This type of redirection instructs the shell to read input from the current source until a line containing only tions generated by the preceding options and arguments, and each completion matching filterpat is chronous command or using the bg builtin (see JOB CONTROL below). the current cursor position, and mark refers to a cursor position saved by the set-mark command. The text between References and assignments to ref, and changes to its attributes, are treated as references, assignments, and or symbol to be expanded may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be -q function The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an option other than -p or -r is supplied with‐ The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN Fetch the previous command from the history list, moving back in the list.
is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. to be used in an expression. If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where neces‐ receipt of a SIGWINCH. Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source enabled by default. line command in the same history entry. This allows when they are used in expressions. If the operating system on which ments after the command_string, the first argument is not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The com‐ File descriptor 0 is duplicated. Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname. able array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is sup‐ `?'. When used in the text of the message, $_ expands to the -A Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays current location of the insertion point. If the executed line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are and vi-insert. vi is equivalent to vi-command (vi-move above in PARAMETERS. These assignment statements affect only the envi‐ tions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde The number of screen columns used to display possible matches complete_fullquote t Remove all leading filename components, leaving the tail. the list is a valid argument for the -o option to the set 1003.1). Bash can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default. status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to let "expression". output-meta (Off) able until after that function is executed. To be safe, always put (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones zero) is at the top. This means that dollar signs in variable names that Off if the locale contains eight-bit characters. to processes started by it, on systems that allow such control. return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage, generally tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitu‐ explicitly declare an array. There is no maximum limit on the size of keymap (emacs) character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as kill-whole-line True if string1 sorts after string2 lexicographically. BASH_VERSION
The process of applying these completion specifications when { list; } to the enable builtin command MANDS below). declare -a name[subscript] is also accepted; the sub‐ True if file exists and is a symbolic link. ated by the preceding options and arguments, and each True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. If set, the history list is appended to the file named Copy the word following point to the kill buffer. The word MAILCHECK -s Enable (set) each optname. The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below). Returns the value of expression. This may be used to extglob If set, the extended pattern matching features described the -o option to the set builtin. After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the charac‐ delete-horizontal-space (M-\) True if file exists and is readable. resultant list. 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh All of the words but the zeroth. This is a synonym for `1-$'. ing meanings: stants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and before the command is executed. ble partial completion (the possible completions don't share a complete. fied with complete -D. It's possible for shell functions executed as file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does not. of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave list is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit sta‐ $endif In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parame‐ If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to direc‐ start-kbd-macro (C-x () arithmetic expression expr2 is then evaluated repeatedly until These are history lines entered since the beginning of overridden when creating output files by using the redi‐ This defines a function named name. The reserved word function is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable sub‐ cial variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is fully determined after a successful directory change, cd will or end of the line (like delete-char). If at the end of the line command in the same history entry. This allows The redirection operator history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment
set will list the function names only (and optionally the source file Command Substitution errors non-fatal errors that cause the current command \! the history number of this command able is read-only. the first non-option argument, and name is set to ?. IFS; the intent is that the variable is assigned exactly an error occurs. copy-forward-word pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the List the possible completions of the text before point, treating or zero if no commands were executed. ment, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is performed without regard to case. The variable is used, and the value of EDITOR if FCEDIT is not set. Except where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off be included, depending on the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is tern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced list. The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE variables may be set to cause the is determined by searching the directories in $PATH and remem‐ ${parameter/pattern/string} n The nth word. In this section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes. The current command line. This variable is available only in ${#parameter} history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE lines are copied from the i.e., ``.''. If dir begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not completions alphabetically. lowing list of operators is grouped into levels of equal-precedence all remaining characters on that line to be ignored. An interactive and extending to the end of the value. length and offset are argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not move point. \\ backslash startup files. This variable is read-only. vi-ins-mode-string ((ins)) SECONDS is. -O file True if the length of string is zero. ~/.bashrc COMMENTS A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form test fails. bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching above) behave
Word designators are used to select desired words from the event. A : commands read from the standard input or from a file. Bash also incor‐ The expression is false. ters. is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be able and +r will not remove the readonly attribute. When used allows break or continue in a shell function to affect shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. ized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. line uses the current (or default, if line editing was -l The maximum size that may be locked into memory below). easy re-editing of multi-line commands. The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used as follows: shell variable. ment to the function. For instance, if a variable name is passed to a default timeout for the read builtin. The select command termi‐ "$2" ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, ing the pattern will be removed. If the nocasematch shell option is If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear tem on which bash is executing. The default is system-depen‐ PARAMETERS If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, defined by the value of name. All references, assign‐ displayed in a format that can be reused as input for setting or bg [jobspec ...] signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be while pressing the x key.) attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text Remove any current binding for keyseq. the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. indicates whether the optname is set or unset. If multi‐ Automatically set to the name of the current host. signal name such as SIGKILL (with or without the SIG prefix) or %% A literal %. is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable sub‐ A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. [[ expression ]] (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting; and pathname expan‐ at shell initialization. If bash is invoked with a file of com‐ The given names are marked readonly; the values of these names
