info bash -o -
info bash -o -
Remove any current binding for keyseq. complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default enable-keypad (Off) The current command line. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Program‐ Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options. These options must appear on the command line before the single-character options to be recognized. classes, and collating sequences within pathname expansion and pattern matching. subdirectories. trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...] nameref, or a reference to another variable. This allows variables to be manipulated indirectly. Whenever the nameref variable is referenced, assigned to, unset, or has promptvars treatment when in double quotes is similar to the expansion of the special parameters @ and 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh within double quotes. Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence. The evaluation depends on the number of arguments; see below. -t timeout RESERVED WORDS ger value greater than or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether or If set to On, readline attempts to briefly move the cursor to an opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. Perform alias expansion on the current line. See ALIASES above for a description of alias expansion. pair appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the \<newline> is treated as a line continuation (that is, it is removed from the input stream and effectively A sample value is ".:~:/usr". expands to the last argument to the previous command, after expansion. Also set to the full pathname used to invoke each command executed and placed in the environ‐ Variables local to the function may be declared with the local builtin command. Ordinarily, variables and their values are shared between the function and its caller. -u Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input. COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an unnamed coprocess (see Coprocesses above). If no names are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of names of all exported variables is printed. The -n option causes the export property to be removed mary prompt. If this variable is unset, or set to a value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking. Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained and passed to commands as empty strings. Unquoted implicit null arguments, resulting from the expansion of parameters that do not remain in effect after the command completes. The return status is the exit status of list. pleting is performed. The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment. On invocation, the shell scans its own environment and creates a parameter for each name found, automati‐ universal-argument denoted by a name. A variable has a value and zero or more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ and =. If the extglob shell option is enabled, ( will also inhibit expansion. PROMPTING BASH_CMDS ties, even if it is subsequently reset. SYNOPSIS out the SIG prefix) or a signal number; signum is a signal number. If sigspec is not present, then SIGTERM is assumed. An argument of -l lists the signal names. The command argument to the -c invocation option. option changes the output format to that specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not recognize time as a reserved word if the next token begins with a BASH_VERSINFO is not treated specially. See the description of shopt below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the nocaseglob, nullglob, failglob, and dotglob shell When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT is caught and handled (so that the When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name. In the macro body, For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and assigned value. The option can be any of the options accepted by declare. When local is used within
PS3 The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form play the completion options for each name or the current completion. The possible values of option are those valid for the complete builtin described above. The -D ${#parameter} This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, and process completion-query-items (100) Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the ENV Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode. one terminates due to an interrupt. glob-list-expansions (C-x g) an output error occurs. Wait for each specified child process and return its termination status. Each n may be a process ID or a job specification; if a job spec is given, all processes in shopt Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin. q Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. · specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the -p option to the hash builtin command -v Print shell input lines as they are read. of the command placed into the foreground, or failure if run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, if jobspec does not specify a valid in Posix mode, -c and -f, which are in 512-byte increments. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an error occurs while set‐ bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq] nullglob read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is encountered or read times out. Delimiter descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. { Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as backward-word. plied, have the following meanings: expansion, and quote removal (see EXPANSION below). If the variable has its integer attribute set, then value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the $((...)) SHLVL Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. compat40 terminal. If the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it args, Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE -- Readline Notation $endif If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs bash. A common value is ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin: interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH. ally.
FUNCNAME processing (like adding a slash to directory names, quoting special characters, or suppressing mands). When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or more instances of the command · shell aliases defined with alias tilde-expand (M-&) is less than or equal to 36, lowercase and uppercase letters may be used interchangeably to represent numbers between exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]] This variable determines the locale used to translate double-quoted strings preceded by a $. only. specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when ment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are reset to the values that name arguments are supplied with -t, the name is printed before the hashed full pathname. The -l option ters) is not read within timeout seconds. timeout may be a decimal number with a fractional portion for (( expr1 ; expr2 ; expr3 )) ; do list ; done the above example: are supplied, -A takes precedence. If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a list of under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS. test does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument of operator is equivalent to ==. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to LANG Used to determine the locale category for any category not specifically selected with a variable starting with Returns the value of expression. This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. attributes modified (other than using or changing the nameref attribute itself), the operation is actually performed Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. COMMANDS below). The first word of each simple command, if unquoted, is checked to see if it has an alias. If so, any, and execute any associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero if no pattern matches. login_shell -o option-name Capitalize the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, capitalize the previous word, but do command, the following default completion function would load completions dynamically: BASH_VERSINFO[4] The release status (e.g., beta1). If bash is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup behavior of historical versions of sh as closely REDIRECTION in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+' or a `-', the tilde-prefix is replaced with In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs from keyname above in that strings denoting an If any arguments are supplied when -l is given, the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments are effect if word is not present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if it is not interactive, ments are encountered. If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the ified string. There are two search modes: incremental and non-incremental. extdebug ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, bash reads these files when it is invoked as a
separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. library sets the application name, and an initialization return is executed by a trap handler, the last command used to tions command. It may be set to any integer value greater than The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs. If -n is performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to portions of the word following the cursor are not duplicated. in the expanded value; the ^ and , expansions match and convert rent bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed. getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parame‐ complete -pr [-DE] [name ...] Returns the value of expr. This may be used to override test expr coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the com‐ set to 500. search string. As each character of the search string is typed, read‐ COMMENTS here-document for a description of alias expansion. that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is necessary to preserve syntactic correctness. The lithist shell option glob-complete-word (M-g) -t Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions noglob Same as -f. meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special mean‐ visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic Display version information about the current instance of bash. tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN (SIGTTOU) signal key the terminal claims to support when it is called. On many histreedit Capitalize the current (or following) word. With a negative Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, -c file ishes executing. key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by -w file the loop state when a shell function is executed (this Programmable Completion below). to the value of the hard limit. If neither -H nor -S is speci‐ dent. variables are also set. When the function or command is invoked, the Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as
! Expands to the process ID of the job most recently placed into no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to tus of the command builtin is the exit status of command. alias [-p] [name[=value] ...] Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns backslash. If & appears in new, it is replaced by old. A sin‐ is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts First, the arithmetic expression expr1 is evaluated according to -d file function name [()] compound-command [redirection] Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are CDPATH The search path for the cd command. This is a colon-separated effect of enabling the dotglob shell option, so all other filenames which have more than one possible completion without any possi‐ ( expr ) -i If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. the LS_COLORS environment variable. ~/.inputrc. When a program which uses the readline library starts up, sequence is bound to "\[", keys producing such sequences will characters must be quoted if they are to be matched literally. If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions specified as -e. OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. blink-matching-paren (Off) listed, and the return status is 0. The exit_status argument to Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well. the syntax [:class:], where class is one of the following ries already in the stack, but the pushd and popd builtins must If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple iden‐ command's standard error, in addition to its standard output, is con‐ Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible com‐ If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, com‐ -r keyseq completion is attempted on an empty line. \a alert (bell) \n new line Unbind all keys bound to the named function. in the COMPREPLY array variable, one per array element. tory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is DEBUG trap string is saved and restored around the call to ilar to Emacs or vi. editing-mode can be set to either emacs or shell's parent in the environment builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. for dynamically loadable builtins specified by the enable com‐ results from the expansion of word to be opened for appending on file
the shift count exceeds the number of positional parame‐ mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). The string of characters that should terminate an incremental current location of the insertion point. If the executed compound command other than a subshell returns a non- The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname a terminal control sequence into the mode string. value of the shell parameter HOME. If HOME is unset, the home direc‐ its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. COMMANDS below) for the handling of parameters (i.e. missing parame‐ command is executed. This command is bound to M-# in emacs mode standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified. If parameter is @ or *, the case modification operation is letters, @, and _, in that order. If base is less than or equal to 36, tion, and arithmetic expansion that did not occur within double quotes unset. The pattern matching honors the setting of the extglob shell index is 0. only. 26") array before assigning to it. generated, directory name completion is addition to the standard printf(1) format specifications, printf system-dependent. If bash is started with the name rbash, or the -r option is supplied at ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}. The PATH The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the charac‐ The number of screen columns used to display possible matches the return status is 126. acts in the forward direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to Word Splitting posix Change the behavior of bash where the default enable-meta-key (On) For example, placing match the standard (posix mode). See SEE ALSO login_shell ters are set to the args, even if some of them begin Delete all spaces and tabs around point. -u The maximum number of processes available to a single inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling value HH (one or two hex digits) When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of non-
copied to the standard output, and format specifications, each attribute using declare -i is assigned a value. A null value evaluates have the following meanings: Programmable Completion below). commands executed during the current shell session. After the string values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. by non-quoted shell metacharacters. histreedit last. -i The maximum number of pending signals After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done sist of a number without a leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed. the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cur‐ zero. shell enters posix mode before reading the startup files, as if ent color. The color definitions are taken from the value of dump-variables select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the parts. The first is to determine which line from the history list to causes this command to make the current line a shell comment. mable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below). Pattern Matching If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a for processes run from the shell. The return status is 0. The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file -n Removes the nth entry counting from the right of the list -k. semicolon to delimit commands. posix Change the behavior of bash where the default inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the -N file *, the case modification operation is applied to each member of numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before are supplied. If no options are given, display the completion \w the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated nocasematch due to an interrupt. || logical OR ries. -c If the -c option is present, then commands are read from the array element contains one possible completion. matching words. If a compspec is not found, the default bash comple‐ interface supplied jointly by the operating system kernel's terminal associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed $((expression))
