info bash -o -
info bash -o -
If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the directory name initially supplied does not exist. found is placed in OPTARG and no diagnostic message is printed. key binding, so the standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of \t horizontal tab tution, the exit status of the command is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a sta‐ The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in upcoming versions of bash. performing the complete indirect expansion. The exceptions to this are the expansions of ${!prefix*} and ${!name[@]} described below. The exclamation point must immedi‐ mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if array is not an indexed array. FUNCTIONS. If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked. argument to -u. Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2016 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. reference to a document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior. -o Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin. [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] possible completions. See SHELL VARIABLES above for a description of FIGNORE. This option is enabled by default. If -C is specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000. When callback is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the Copy the word following point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as forward-word. Resume each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. bg these escape characters by default. echo does not interpret -- to mean the end of options. echo interprets the following escape sequences: non-printing characters, which can be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the mode string. If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current shell environment. Otherwise, the variables are added to the environment of the executed command of -- as signifying the end of options. -t The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds fully changed; false otherwise. expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the beginning or end serves to delimit words. If IFS has a value other than the default, then sequences -u function Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f. completion-ignore-case (Off) insert-comment (M-#) MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has mail!"' colored-stats (Off) a decimal number between 2 and 64 representing the arithmetic base, and n is a number in that base. If base# is omitted, then base 10 is used. When specifying n, the dig‐ COPYRIGHT -i The maximum number of pending signals · changing directories with cd beginning-of-line (C-a) descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable name is set to each element of this list in turn, and list is executed each ! Start a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin). turn. Any numeric argument supplied to these successive calls determines the direction to move through the history. A negative argument switches the direction do-uppercase-version (M-a, M-b, M-x, ...) list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see SHELL GRAMMAR above). Refer to
erwise. If first is not specified it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing. -n string the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If any jobs are running, this causes the exit to be SHELL The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment variable. If it is not set when the shell starts, bash assigns to it the full pathname of the current jobs -x command [ args ... ] substitution. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. When a match is found, the The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless returns 0 unless the directory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is specified, or the directory change to the specified new current directory keyseq-timeout (500) take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an ALL bug reports should include: denoted by a name. A variable has a value and zero or more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the declare builtin command (see declare below in SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ between the point and mark is referred to as the region. getopts is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. optstring contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a The value of parameter is substituted. The braces are required when parameter is a positional parameter with more than one digit, or when parameter is followed by a A case command first expands word, and tries to match it against each pattern in turn, using the same matching rules as for pathname expansion (see Pathname Expan‐ Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes named by pid or jobspec. sigspec is either a case-insensitive signal name such as SIGKILL (with or with‐ 124, and changes the compspec associated with the command on which completion is being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is executed), program‐ characters before point. Negative arguments have no effect. | bitwise OR ters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of com‐ options are supplied, each name refers to a variable; if there is no variable by that name, any function with that name is unset. Each unset variable or function is A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -o option to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS compgen [option] [word] if any, and execute any associated list on a successful match. The exit status is zero if no pattern matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the last command { Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file (the inputrc file). The name of this file is taken from the value of the INPUTRC variable. If that string, expanding left to right. · importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup The format for a coprocess is: -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special parameters "@" and "*" as an error when performing parameter expansion. If expansion is string comparison when using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators. Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and history is the event, and the portions of that line that are acted upon are words. Various modifiers are available to manipulate the selected words. The line is broken parameter. If string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / following pattern may be omitted. If the nocasematch shell option is enabled, the match is \a an ASCII bell character (07) The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The -r option reverses the order of the commands. If the -l option is given, the commands are listed on -r Display only running jobs. When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see HISTORY EXPANSION below), the history expansion character, usually !, must be quoted to prevent history True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. The option-name can be one of the following: If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is
-c Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback. invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no substitution occurs. commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG and RETURN traps are normally not inherited in command builtin. type returns true if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found. comma 3 arguments SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION below under Special Parameters. A variable is a parameter denoted by a name. A variable has a value and zero or BASH_VERSINFO If a command is terminated by the control operator &, the shell executes the command in the background in a subshell. A token that performs a control function. It is one of the following symbols: directly from a completion specification with the same flags. If word is specified, only those completions Referencing an array variable without a subscript is equivalent to referencing the array with a subscript of 0. Any backward-char (C-b) from the keyboard. This can prevent pasted characters from being interpreted as editing commands. True if file exists and is set-group-id. the history expansion character, but the history expansion character is also treated as quoted if it immediately pre‐ Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word. The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. \@ the current time in 12-hour am/pm format Kill the text from point to the end of the line. command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to the following conditions. empty environment. If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument to the executed command. An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the colon. This is known as a group command. The return status is the exit status of list. Note that unlike the -V List current readline variable names and values. With an argument n, insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in the previous command begin causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments are given, or if only character ``.'' at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, unless the shell exit status of the last command executed in list, or zero if no commands were executed. special builtins. Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function is defined are performed ing possible completions. -X List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the associated commands in a format that can be True if file exists and is a socket. direxpand The systemwide login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname completions. When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or DIRSTACK are unset, they lose their special properties, even if they are histverify -v Print shell input lines as they are read. shell-backward-kill-word
played again. If EOF is read, the command completes. Any other played. attempted and any matches are added to the acts in the forward direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to ".:~:/usr". LINES Used by the select compound command to determine the column file as a directory. An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD the new working directory is written to the standard output. For example, placing option. from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist and are readable. words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment default completion function would load completions dynamically: $ The last word. This is usually the last argument, but will carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between considered quoted. This is the behavior of posix mode When bash is started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line below. Run command with args suppressing the normal shell function expr?expr:expr If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter ~/.bash_logout enabled Names of enabled shell builtins. files when it is invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. BASH_VERSION There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single filenames in PATH are used to find the directory containing the exit status is 0 if command was found, and 1 if not. If $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'. If the value is null, read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname comple‐ declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...] command always returns success. The return status of a coprocess is spec generates no matches. --noediting AUTHORS FUNCTIONS ning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id. \xHH the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words If the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function bell-style (audible) shopt below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the
Each arg is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITH‐ no arguments are supplied. --version completion-ignore-case (Off) for the given resource. A hard limit cannot be increased by a moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard -w Write the current history list to the history file, over‐ pad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the readonly variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is sup‐ -n string unsetting it will result in the standard error being closed. When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-inter‐ tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and command sub‐ popd [-n] [+n] [-n] consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first patibility level. If BASH_COMPAT is unset or set to the empty causes the shell to print a list of signal names and their cor‐ when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref --noprofile option has been enabled. startup files. This variable is read-only. The --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands current bash session. being completed, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~ binary shell with those options or allow them to be specified. expression1 && expression2 complete-filename (M-/) omitted, it is treated like a ?, which matches every character. This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ] A character is read and point is moved to the previous occur‐ IFS The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting word completion is attempted is described above under Program‐ the variable's value. had been started with &. If jobspec is not present, the shell's %q causes printf to output the corresponding argument in a attempted on a blank line. is substituted. auto_resume not take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands assign a value to an array variable without using the compound be included, depending on the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is A compound command is one of the following. In most cases a list in a a terminal control sequence into the mode string. operators. Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII -- A -- signals the end of options and disables further option to that job. In output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the
no commands are executed), and false if filename is not found or In this example, C-u is again bound to the function universal-argument. builtins 4. The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde the loop state when a shell function is executed (this gous to the %? job identifier (see JOB CONTROL below). If set each pattern in turn, using the same matching rules as for path‐ Redirecting Input ning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what opening parenthesis when a closing parenthesis is inserted. coproc [NAME] command [redirections] operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and default. positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to the Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently option. entries. default timeout for the read builtin. The select command termi‐ mand names to be removed from the hash table. If BASH_CMDS is If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/. ?(pattern-list) continue [n] less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than performed, with the exception of "$@" as explained below under Special pletions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the \e must be separated from list by whitespace or another shell mean the end of options. echo interprets the following escape performed using a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to \r carriage return posix Change the behavior of bash where the default then be used to inspect their status. If a second attempt to exit is been given. This is an exception to the usual printf operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT lowed by digits, executing universal-argument again ends the If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the -c nor the Without options, the name and value of each shell variable are globstar the final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of REPLY Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when argument is supplied, array is invalid or unassignable, or if --debugger
valid shell option. Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in exit [n] If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when Several characters inhibit history expansion if found immediately fol‐ dren. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a problem. -h Remember the location of commands as they are looked up than or equal to 1. command or shell function sets -e while executing in a The special parameters 100.txt 101.txt 102.txt 103.txt 104.txt 105.txt 106.txt 107.txt 108.txt 109.txt 10.txt 110.txt 111.txt 112.txt 113.txt 114.txt 115.txt 116.txt 117.txt 118.txt 119.txt 11.txt 120.txt 121.txt 122.txt 123.txt 124.txt 125.txt 126.txt 127.txt 128.txt 12.txt 13.txt 14.txt 15.txt 16.txt 17.txt 18.txt 19.txt 1.txt 20.txt 21.txt 22.txt 23.txt 24.txt 25.txt 26.txt 27.txt 28.txt 29.txt 2.txt 30.txt 31.txt 32.txt 33.txt 34.txt 35.txt 36.txt 37.txt 38.txt 39.txt 3.txt 40.txt 41.txt 42.txt 43.txt 44.txt 45.txt 46.txt 47.txt 48.txt 49.txt 4.txt 50.txt 51.txt 52.txt 53.txt 54.txt 55.txt 56.txt 57.txt 58.txt 59.txt 5.txt 60.txt 61.txt 62.txt 63.txt 64.txt 65.txt 66.txt 67.txt 68.txt 69.txt 6.txt 70.txt 71.txt 72.txt 73.txt 74.txt 75.txt 76.txt 77.txt 78.txt 79.txt 7.txt 80.txt 81.txt 82.txt 83.txt 84.txt 85.txt 86.txt 87.txt 88.txt 89.txt 8.txt 90.txt 91.txt 92.txt 93.txt 94.txt 95.txt 96.txt 97.txt 98.txt 99.txt 9.txt SH.sh and @ have special meaning when in double or completion-prefix-display-length (0) empty string (completion attempted at the beginning of an empty line), leader. getopts can report errors in two ways. If the first character Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning for subscripts differ only when the word appears within double quotes. If Readline commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though betic characters. If set, allow a word beginning with # to cause that word prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name ...] first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory ercase. The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character is used to generate a list of matching filenames for possible name. appended, to the command on its standard input (or file descriptor n if Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling of zero. one, so executing this function the first time makes the argu‐ -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating is decoded, it is expanded via parameter expansion, command substitu‐ and no new entries are saved. If set to a value less than zero, An array variable containing the names of all shell functions possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) tion associated with each history entry is written to the his‐ enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alpha‐ option to the shopt builtin below) command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of result is the length members of the array beginning with to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a waitpid system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between is subsequently reset. saved on the history list. If the list of values includes
