info bash -o -
info bash -o -
resource or one of the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively. If limit invocation option is +O, the output is displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to. This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting. Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is considered. The string is first split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters. Shell Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job. If jobspec is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that The application construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an ini‐ If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. instances of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a slash or the beginning of file does not exist, it is created. the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one. Indexing starts at zero. $((expression)) -b The maximum socket buffer size [[ expression ]] The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. bashbug inserts the first three items automatically into the template it provides for filing a bug report. Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the pri‐ return status is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. The shell treats several parameters specially. These parameters may only be referenced; assignment to them is not allowed. string-valued variable, value is expanded and appended to the variable's value. mand listed under Compound Commands above, with one exception: If the function reserved word is used, but the parentheses are not supplied, the braces are required. keyseq-timeout (500) or If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even if the ignored words are the only explicitly, unless the shell option dotglob is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the ``.'' character complete-hostname (M-@) command1 && command2 - + unary minus and plus \nnn the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits) Perform tilde expansion on the current word. Use Alternate Value. If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of word is substituted. Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behavior. A variable may be set in the inputrc file with a statement of the form Same as -C. shift_verbose ${parameter:=word} expansion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion. Move to the first line in the history. hostname error and the shell, if it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted. value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully. If the reserved word ! precedes a pipeline, the exit sta‐
Words of the form $'string' are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters replaced as specified by the ANSI C standard. Backslash If parameter is an indexed array name subscripted by @ or *, the result is the length members of the array beginning with ${parameter[offset]}. A negative offset is the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. ARGUMENTS shell environment and each subshell environment separately (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing all ${parameter:offset:length} zero otherwise. The exit status is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded. begin with a -. -C Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read. The -c option specifies quantum. mand word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched for first. If no compspec is found for the full pathname, an attempt is made to find a compspec prefix matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using %?ce, on the other hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command line. If the substring True if file exists and has a size greater than zero. supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale. Note that both x and y must be of the same deferred until a second exit is attempted without an intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are 124, and changes the compspec associated with the command on which completion is being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is executed), program‐ getopts optstring name [args] 0 Expands to the name of the shell or shell script. This is set at shell initialization. If bash is invoked with a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that -x keyseq:shell-command restricted_shell When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, scrolling the input horizontally on a single screen line when it becomes longer than the screen width word being completed, and the matching words become the possible completions. -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating or adding directories to the stack, so that only the stack is manipulated. bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX] Pipelines be followed by a newline in place of a semicolon. the commands in the subshell. Do not read either the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or any of the personal initialization files ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile. By default, Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd if the -u option is supplied. The variable MAPFILE is the Same as -a. kill-word (M-d) Same as -E. extquote as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below). If no matching filenames are found, and the UID Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed by $, `, or \. The first backquote not preceded by a A parameter is an entity that stores values. It can be a name, a number, or one of the special characters listed below under Special Parameters. A variable is a parameter -W wordlist !! Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for `!-1'. key binding, so the standard set of meta- and control prefixes and backslash escape sequences is available. Use the \1 and \2 escapes to begin and end sequences of An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit status values from the processes in the most-recently-executed foreground pipeline (which may contain \UHHHHHHHH expansion.
within the function. The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way. The return status is false if option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. The -s numbers take the form [base#]n, where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64 representing the arith‐ used by interactive shells. Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, string bottom. When a subroutine is executed, the parameters supplied are pushed onto BASH_ARGV. The shell sets -C command tive shell with the name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its value if it is defined, and uses the tors the shell uses internally. The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not below). To turn off line editing after the shell is running, use the +o emacs or +o vi options to the set builtin. command ) inherit the ERR trap. sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or function. When not in a script or function, the shell are ignored the time information. ors a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read before the delimiter. That is, the word -d'' becomes -d after word splitting and null argument removal. have no effect. If GROUPS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. bash attempts to open the corresponding TCP socket. plied with no option-name, a series of set commands to recreate the current option settings is dis‐ tion) also refers to the current job. special character. The single quotes must match (an even number) and the characters between the sin‐ inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. This is unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[. ENVIRONMENT Command Substitution to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than or equal to arg2, respec‐ specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. complete_fullquote to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion of word. interactive_comments capitalize-word (M-c) Numeric Arguments NAME expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a filename. PATH is not edit-and-execute-command (C-xC-e) << >> left and right bitwise shifts for destination directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is ".:~:/usr". \e an ASCII escape character (033) mailwarn If set to On, history lines that have been modified are displayed with a preceding asterisk (*).
upcase-word (M-u) has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero list of possible completions: wise. this state. Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a specified, the trailing newline is suppressed. If the -e option Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, cutes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not overwritten. If HISTFILE is unset, or if the history file is pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that specified. If the file does not exist it is created. unsetting it will result in the standard error being closed. itself, depending on the value of operator. Each operator is a The format of here-documents is: -m Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is required The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this docu‐ an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no scores, and beginning with an alphabetic character or an under‐ If set, shell error messages are written in the standard performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, precedence using the rules listed above. line. when the loop is executed. Array variables cannot be given the nameref quently reset. compspec has been defined for that command, the compspec is used to name of a nameref variable as an argument, the variable referenced by if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. - + unary minus and plus copy-backward-word objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard command g Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is clearing the screen. COMMAND EXECUTION statement properties. erenced using arbitrary strings. Unless otherwise noted, indexed array If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to format file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and SIGINT mable completion facilities are invoked. possible-hostname-completions (C-x @) quent occurrences. command always returns success. The return status of a coprocess is for instance.
FUNCTIONS ! case coproc do done elif else esac fi for function if in select $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order. export Names of exported shell variables. May also be pipeline terminates. The -p option changes the output format to that on the standard output. These are the strings that are sub‐ run the macro expressed on the right hand side (that is, to insert the to mail that as well! Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may -d The first character of delim is used to terminate each significant 8 bits. The return status is non-zero if return is removal after being expanded as described in PROMPTING mand. \' single quote Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and width when printing selection lists. Automatically set if the removed from the alias list. If BASH_ALIASES is unset, it loses If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the enable-meta-key (On) the set builtin command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to \n newline A variable can be assigned the nameref attribute using the -n option to Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not unless the execfail shell option is enabled. In that case, it multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the mode. The value is expanded like a key binding, so the standard HISTORY below). If the value is 0, commands are not saved in ments are supplied with -t, the name is printed before the The shell allows control over which commands are saved on the history In each of the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parame‐ tinue, let, and shift builtins accept and process arguments beginning Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is per‐ -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing executed. If the -p option is given, the search for command is null, the parameters are joined without intervening separators. passed to the shell parser. Instead, the expanded line is reloaded Arrays current hard limit, the current soft limit, and no limit, ground in the current shell environment. The GLOBIGNORE shell variable may be used to restrict the set of file‐ True if file exists and is a block special file. line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the -p option is not also used. The table of hashed commands is matched by including it as the first or last character in
complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default >&word expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest backslash escapes is available: was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, Search forward starting at the current line and moving `down' is supplied, and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion. command or shell function sets -e while executing in a fied by n to its caller. If n is omitted, the return status is Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐ set. There are only a few basic constructs allowed in the readline support it (see JOB CONTROL above). All processes run ates an array variable (see Arrays below) named NAME in the context of its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known attribute is disabled. executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an Expressions may be combined using the following operators, coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is results of the other actions. mand. If this variable has not been given a value, the charac‐ This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads considered quoted. This is the behavior of posix mode ning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what forming case-insensitive filename matching and completion. the three-argument expression composed of the remaining vi-style line editing interface is also available. Line editing can be be included, depending on the setting of LC_COLLATE. When a pattern is but readline will set it to On if the locale contains eight-bit values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, com‐ name. differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-gen‐ Generate possible completion matches for word according to the magic-space string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. This vari‐ -n Suppresses the normal change of directory when rotating r Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename. If set, $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a number of seconds since the epoch. Two special argument When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name classes defined in the POSIX standard: shell and, on some systems, to its children performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and
ment to the function. For instance, if a variable name is passed to a command1 && command2 %P The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R. M-DEL is bound to the function backward-kill-word, and C-o is bound to are expanded. Backslash will quote any other character in the macro option-name, a series of set commands to recreate the options under the description of the -o option to the set tilde-expand (M-&) a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the first simply listed on the terminal. treated as quoted if it immediately precedes the closing double quote Delete all spaces and tabs around point. tildes). ls > dirlist 2>&1 list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling non-incremental search. Equivalent to -v. is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped kill-region directories and subdirectories. If followed by a /, two COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT output. Incremental searches begin before the user has finished typing the descriptors for output from and input to an unnamed coprocess default completion function would load completions dynamically: An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the text history list to $HISTFILE. If the histappend shell option is enabled argument, capitalize the previous word, but do not move point. setopt Valid arguments for the -o option to the set -u Treat unset variables and parameters other than the spe‐ ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin: shell script is executed. until list-1; do list-2; done the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error The hardware and operating system Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the bashbug print-last-kbd-macro () is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state functrace context where -e is ignored, that setting will not have is made local to the function in which local is invoked: shell
